Detractors claimed that Kings Park Stadium, Durban’s traditional rugby home, was better suited to hosting the matches. Moses Mabhida was listed as Durban’s venue for the tournament in the bid document lodged with the World Rugby Council. Former Sharks chief executive Brian van Zyl slammed the decision to ditch Kings Park over Moses Mabhida, which did not meet the game’s requirements. Cape Town is in a similar predicament, with some diehards preferring Newlands Stadium over the Cape Town Stadium, which was also a 2010 Soccer World Cup venue. Even though Van Zyl was confident rugby fans would pack stadiums if the bid was won, he said: “I really believe that Kings Park is a better stadium and, quite frankly, I don’t think that this was a good move by the bid committee. Moses Mabhida is a soccer stadium and the pitch is too far from the stands.” Chris Theron, director at One Stop Sport, which provided hospitality services at Kings Park said: “This move will definitely have an impact on us. Financially, I’m going to lose because my client base is at Kings Park.” Theron has been trading there since 1995, when the country hosted its first and only Rugby World Cup, which the Springboks won. Apart from his concerns, Theron said: “We must look into the future. We must impress the international tourists who will attend. “Sentiments aside, these 2010 Fifa World Cup stadiums must be used," he said. Theron said there should be a consultation process on how Moses Mabhida Stadium could  best be utilised to host rugby games/ Sports photographer Steve Haag, who has attended three Rugby World Cups said: “If the Sharks will be relocating to Moses Mabhida, then this move made sense. But if Sharks are not relocating, then it’s a no-brainer for me.” Comparing Moses Mabhida and Kings Park, Haag said: “Mabhida is beautiful from the outside but not a rugby-friendly stadium on the inside. The pitch is too far from the stands and from a photography point of view it does not have relevant facilities like Kings Park.” But Errol Stewart, a former Sharks player, favoured the Moses Mabhida Stadium. “The move to our modern, safer, easy-access, comfortable and more spectator-friendly stadiums can’t come a moment too soon. It is high time we embraced the world-class sporting infrastructure we have, so I fully support the use of them.” On claims that Moses Mabhida Stadium was not rugby-friendly, Stewart said: “There may be the odd issue but we will have sufficient time to make the appropriate adjustments." Asked whether they anticipated a revolt from rugby fans for taking matches to Moses Mabhida, SA Rugby Union (Saru) spokesperson Andy Colquhoun said: “No. The bid document includes stadiums for the 2023 World Cup that meet World Rugby’s requirements.” Colquhoun said matches were already being played at these stadiums and rugby fans have been attending in their numbers. “An example is the hugely successful Cape Town Sevens,” he said. As the stadium venue debate  raged, the country inched  closer to hosting the sporting spectacle after Rugby World Cup Limited this week   recommended South Africa to the World Rugby Council as its choice. The ball was now in the court of the 39 voting states that will vote by secret ballot in London on November 15. All three candidates, South Africa, France and Ireland, will be on the ballot paper but they will not vote. Saru chief executive Jurie Roux said he was confident the country would win the bid. Vision He said Saru’s legacy vision was to introduce 1million young South Africans from different race groups to rugby from now until 2027. “There is also a mechanism to ensure that there is a pool of tickets which will be provided to rugby clubs and schools and other organisations in disadvantaged communities. "We want full stadia and for South Africans from all sectors of society to experience the event,” he said. Saru president Mark Alexander thanked the government and the country’s former World Cup winning captains Francois Pienaar and John Smit for their “unwavering” support throughout the bidding process. Of the expected R27billion cash injection for the country from the event, Durban would pocket R4.5bn for Moses Mabhida matches. “Hosting the Rugby World Cup 2023 will be a massive boost for our country and for rugby,” said Roux. KZN Premier Willies Mchunu said: “As we approach this global event, we need to reflect on the road that the international sports community has travelled with the pathfinders of our democracy and freedom. “These include former ANC president Oliver Tambo, who used sport to unite and lobby international communities to isolate an apartheid South African government, and Nelson Mandela, who used sport as a tool to unite our people across all racial lines." Moses Mabhida Stadium general manager Vusi Mazibuko said they would wait for the process to unfold before popping the champagne corks. Sharks spokesperson Novashini Chetty had not responded by the time of going to print. SUNDAY TRIBUNE