DURBAN - How do astronauts go to the toilet in space? How many engineers does it take to build a space shuttle? Where does ‘space water’ come from? These were questions raised by scores of young math and science enthusiasts, who sat at the edge of their seats at the Durban Natural Science Museum on Thursday, taking in the space adventures of former NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) astronaut, Dr Donald Thomas. Thomas, from Cleveland, USA, has been on a space expedition four times between 1994 and 1997 and has orbited earth over 600 times. Thomas, now retired, is on a new mission: to inspire youth who he believes will become the next generation of space explorers. WATCH: It takes 8.5 minutes to reach space from earth  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The event was hosted by was the Durban Natural Science Museum in association with the US Consulate General, and the organisation, Living Math. Thomas’ goal was to inspire pupils to excel in math and science by sharing with them the highlights of a career in the field. NASA had been rejected him four times before administration recruited him in 1991 as a mission specialist to control the mechanisms of space shuttles. WATCH: How do astronauts bath?  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. WATCH How do astronauts go to the toilet in space?      WATCH: The law of gravity in space      WATCH: How do astronauts get water in space?      According to Thomas, a full orbit around earth while in a space shuttle is 90 minutes. In a 24 hour ‘day’, astronauts would see 16 sunrises and 16 sunsets while in orbit. At least 45 minutes of exercise on a bicycle in the space shuttle is a daily requirement to ensure the body does not lose function. While performing the mandatory exercise an astronaut would have passed half the globe. 12-year-old, TJ Shezi, was called to the stage to try on space gear. WATCH: KZN Pupil tries on astronaut space gear     Shezi told the Sunday Tribune, that after the seminar he would do everything possible to be an astronaut when he grows up, including doing his math homework each day.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE