Durban - The ANC Women’s League said it was shocked at the rape allegations levelled against the former mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay Metro and SA Football Association boss Danny Jordaan. KwaZulu-Natal ANCWL spokesperson Nonhlanhla Msomi said it was surprised rape allegations against Jordaan had emerged 24 years later. She said after the matter had been brought into the public domain, a court had the duty to test its veracity. On the back of the international #MeToo campaign that emerged recently in which victims of sexual harassment spoke out, former ANC MP and singer Jennifer Ferguson made her rape allegations against Jordaan. “It is also shocking that a person of Jordaan’s calibre could be linked to such allegations. But we believe in the justice system which pronounces that only a court of law could find a person guilty.” “We encourage people to come forward with evidence in other cases. For too long, women are being abused and their rights infringed.” READ MORE: Singer Jennifer Ferguson accuses top sports administrator of rape Msomi promised to support Ferguson and others if the matter went to court. “If the need arises, we as the Women’s League can assure her of our support. Having said that, we will wait for the court’s pronouncement,” she said. The ANC national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said it had not discussed the allegations with Jordaan. “We will wait for him and his attorney to address the matter privately before we ask him for an explanation. It is a private matter that needs his devoted attention. But, at an opportune time, we will hear from him,” Kodwa said. READ MORE: Safa boss Danny Jordaan denies rape allegations In a statement released this week, Jordaan’s attorney Mamodupi Mohlala-Mulaudzi, said he denied raping Ferguson at a Port Elizabeth hotel 24 years ago. Mohlala-Mulaudzi said Jordaan had to be sensitive when responding because of the scourge of gender-based violence in the country. Ferguson, now based in Sweden, stuck to her allegations. “There is no question about what happened and if he (Jordaan) wants to play on the nuances that imply in any way that it was consensual, then he is lying,” Ferguson said. Ferguson is one of three people who have made rape allegations against Jordaan recently.  nkululeko.nene@inl.co.za  Sunday Tribune