Kimi Makwetu reported this week that irregular expenditure rose by 55% to R45.6bn for the 2016/17 financial year. And the figure could rise to as much as R65bn when the outstanding audits are completed. This is criminal. Over the years, Makwetu has offered a carrot to those in charge of government departments and state-owned enterprises in an effort to stem the waste and improper use of public funds. While there have been improvements, there have also been shocking figures year in and year out. Understandably, he has lost patience. In terms of the Public Audit Act, Makwetu can only pore over the books, ask tough questions, report and castigate. He cannot take steps against the culprits, some of whom are repeat offenders, to have them disciplined or prosecuted and recoup ill-gotten gains. Now he is looking for a stick. Parliament is reviewing his powers and hopefully he will soon have teeth. But it will be some time before that happens. Regulations such as the Public Finance Management Act provide clear guidelines on how public money should be spent and what should be done with those who waste it or act negligently or improperly. The laws are simply not being followed by the accounting officers in our organs of state. Clearly, they carry on as they have in the past, knowing they will bear no consequences. The act makes it a crime for officials to allow improper expenditure or fail to report it or take effective steps to prevent it. Some of the offences are punishable by years of imprisonment. And far more severe sentences apply where corruption, fraud or theft can be proven. Considering the state of our economy and the high expectations of the poor, this scourge demands eradication. It drains the public coffers, strains our economy and undermines long-term development. It robs the poor and continually defers their dream of a better life as funds are diverted away from the priorities stated in our national plans and policies. It’s certainly time the auditor-general was given more power. But until that happens, we should all demand the laws are enforced to stop the brazen wastage and theft. * Mazwi Xaba is the editor of the Sunday Tribune. Sunday Tribune