DURBAN - THE Durban make-up artist at the centre of a storm for allegedly duping customers with cheap make-up products that have been re-labelled has sold her company, she claimed on Facebook. In a detailed message published on Glo Cosmetics Facebook page, Shiloh King, would not disclose who the company had been sold to. Last month, Durbanites were peeling away their Glo Cosmetics products only to find that make-up she had resold to them for thousands appeared to be cheap Asian products which were available online for about $1 (about R14). See also: Durbanites furious after paying thousands for fake makeup King claimed she had developed the skincare range in Facebook posts in the past. In October, many Durbanites were outraged and started posting pictures as they peeled off the labels only to find a trademark of a cheaper Chinese brand. On Thursday, King took to Facebook to announce that she had sold her business which took a “beating”, she said. “I have been offered to sell my brand and I have accepted the offer as the brand has taken a beating due to accusations. However, the new owners have such faith in the products, have silently been testing the products as faithful clients and were led to make an offer that was substantial. I will continue to endorse the Glo brand as it is a high quality product, at an affordable price as well as being a professional product that many artists are still using,” she said. See also: Lodge complaints over fake cosmetics brand She would not say who the new owners were and said the Glo brand would retain the same sales reps. About the relabelling scandal which hit the company, she said: “In terms of all the answers the public requires about relabeling, we cannot issue a statement as we are now proceeding to court due to the Tribune's legal team not being able to provide the required evidence,” she said. The Sunday Tribune responded to King’s lawyers on Thursday and expressed that the newspaper stands by the stories mentioned below. See also: Durbanites furious after paying thousands for fake makeup See also: More Durbanites outraged by fake makeup See also: Lodge complaints over fake cosmetics brand Meanwhile, more than 300 people have joined a Facebook group titled “Duped by Glo Cosmetics” which sprung up earlier this week.