The artist Shiloh King, of Glo Cosmetics, came under fire over the past week after a social media storm following a debacle in which she allegedly relabelled cheaper make-up products and sold them as her own. Westville-based spa Basil and Bamboo issued a statement to warn consumers it had severed ties with the company. In its statement, the spa said it had stocked the Glo Cosmetics range, the formulas of which King claimed to be her intellectual property. Also read: Durbanites fume after paying thousands for fake make up “Due to a failure by Glo Cosmetics to provide pertinent information regarding the product, or its origin, we initiated our own investigation into the make-up range. In the process, we made appalling discoveries about Glo Cosmetics. “We immediately resolved to cease all relations with Glo Cosmetics in the interest of ethical business conduct and consumer interest,” the spa said. On Glo Cosmetics’ Facebook page, the company said it was consulting its legal team before issuing a public response. “This is not a stalling tactic, but one that will be based on truth and not opinions. Rest assured all your questions will be answered soon.” The debacle first emerged when Phoenix resident Ronel Govender took to social media to raise her concerns when she noticed the skincare products she bought from Glo Cosmetics had been relabelled. She alleged her husband had a reaction to the products. Glo asked for a medical report, but she did not provide this. Also read: Outrage of fake make up Hundreds of Durban residents expressed their shock on Facebook this week. Some posted images of the labels being removed from the Glo Cosmetics products, only to find an original MC Makeup label underneath. King was sent a letter by the Sunday Tribune Herald on Thursday requesting information. This included proof of claims that she manufactured products in her lab. She had earlier claimed this on her website, but it was removed this week. In the “about” section of the Glo Cosmetics Facebook page, it stated King has more than 20 years’ experience and has developed an affordable high-definition cosmetic range for all skin types. On Instagram, Glo Cosmetics also stated that its “manufacturing lab was FDA (Food and Drug Administration) compliant”. However, when the Sunday Tribune questioned a Glo Cosmetics representative last week about the lab allegation, he said the products were sourced from credible labs in Asia. ASA acting chief executive, Gail Schimmel, said there would be an investigation when official complaints were lodged with the organisation. “Consumers affected by the allegations can lay an official complaint by logging on to our website (www.asasa.org.za) and filling out the complaint form. It will be investigated, and a ruling on the matter can then be made,” said Schimmel.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE