Ndaba, is among the top three finalists, along with Cape Town’s Paxton Fielies and Pretoria’s Botlhale Phora. The trio spent this week in London, where they recorded their debut singles, which will be performed tonight. Ndaba recorded  Masithande (Let’s love each other), Phora recorded Good Enough and Fielies recorded Demonstrate. The KwaMashu-born singer won the hearts of many during his audition. After securing a golden ticket earlier in the talent contest, Ndaba returned home and during a robbery was shot in the legs. Former Gagasi FM radio DJ and producer Jacinta Ngobese has been leading a campaign  to secure votes for Ndaba by supplying airtime to his fans. “We bought airtime for R11500. We received sponsorships from people like local businessman Sibonelo Mbatha among others. “We invited people to different venues and provided them with airtime so they could vote for him,” Ngobese said. Motorcades were also used to create hype around Ndaba. “I have never met Mthokozisi,” Ngobese said. “I am doing all of this from the heart because he is from my home town. His musical talent is amazing and we wish him all the best.” For the finals next Sunday, there was a plan to erect a big screen in KwaMashu. Ndaba has been through many challenges in his life, having lost all his family members including his newborn baby. He told the Sunday Tribune last month that he planned to release his album with a book detailing his life’s pains and his Idols journey. The book would be titled Pain and Fame. Bishop Nicholas Mzimela from the KwaMashu Christian Centre said the congregation was proud of Ndaba, who had been a member of the church for 10 years. “He loved music and asked to join the church choir,” Mzimela said. “He has really done well in the competition and we are supporting him to the end.” First lady Tobeka Madiba Zuma and eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede are also backing Ndaba. Madiba-Zuma remembers a performance that left her in tears when Ndaba performed Gerald Levert’s I Was Made to Love You. “While he may be young, he has a will of steel,” she said. “Mthokozisi has not only gone through a rough patch in life, he has seen it all. I remember... (when) they had to dedicate their song choice to their loved ones who had passed on. Mthokozisi dedicated his song to not just one, but 11 of his late family members. When he sang that song, I was in tears,” recalled Madiba-Zuma. She said Ndaba was a winner, no matter what happened from here. The city’s first citizen urged Durbanites to back Ndaba. “I encourage all  Durbanites and South Africans to vote in their numbers. Whatever the outcome, we are proud of him and in our hearts, he is already a hero and is destined for greatness;” said Gumede.  siphelele.buthelezi@inl.co.za  *  To vote for Mthokozisi Ndaba, SMS 01 to 37400 *  To vote for Botlhale Phora, SMS 03 to 37400 *   To vote for Paxton Fielies, SMS 08 to 37400 *   Vote on web:
www.idolssa.tv. or via the WeChat app SUNDAY TRIBUNE