Durban - The KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC has urged Grade 12 pupils to donate their school uniforms instead of tearing or writing on the uniform as a means to celebrate the end of school. Matric exams end officially on Tuesday next week, but the majority of Grade 12 pupils around the country will write their final examination on Monday morning with the English paper three exam and take them a step closer to completing their National Senior Certificate exam. MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana said in a press statement that they were concerned that pupils would deface uniforms, apparently, in celebration. “We have observed this unacceptable culture of tearing and writing of messages on school uniform by our pupils. With our triple challenges of poverty, inequality, and unemployment, we cannot afford to have this practice continues unabated.” The last paper is traditionally celebrated with a coloured powder festival outside the school as school friends leave farewell messages on each other’s uniforms. Some students even tear the sleeves off their shirts. However, Dlungwana urged youngsters to refrain from the practice. “We want to ask our learners to ensure that on their last day of exams, they donate their uniforms so that those learners who come from indigent families can benefit from it,” he said. Last year, a Gauteng school made headlines when more than 200 matriculants at the Randfontein High School donated shoes, uniforms and stationery after their last exam. The pupils also wrote messages and placed them inside the shoes and wished their recipients the best of luck with their futures. Dlungwana also called on pupils to behave responsibly during the December holiday. In past years, matric pupils have been killed in violent brawls during the festive seasons. Read also: https://www.iol.co.za/dailynews/three-die-at-matric-party-1788712 “Whether it is a holiday or not, learners must conduct themselves in a responsible manner and stay away from irresponsible behavior. We take a very dim view on the so-called ‘pens down’ events and rave parties where our learners abuse alcohol and drugs, which results in some learners getting raped. We admonish all our learners to stay away from such practices,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE