Potgieter’s son, Frans, told Craig about the murder. Craig was overwhelmed when he arrived at the scene where Potgieter’s bakkie had crashed. It is believed that a robber, who had earlier attacked Potgieter with a panga, had attempted to make a getaway in the pensioner’s bakkie. Potgieter’s body was in the vehicle at the time. Craig said he was horrified to see his friend’s face covered with blood from deep cuts. “I have never seen something like that. My friend was killed brutally, his face chopped beyond recognition. His eyes cut out, his nose was off, his cheek left hanging, teeth and tongue cut out. No way could he have survived the horrible attack,” said Craig. Also read: Villagers mourn 'White Zulu' Having visited the mud hut that Potgieter was building and where the attack is believed to have taken place, Craig is convinced his friend was attacked from behind. “He was a humble man and kind to everyone. He would not harm a fly. Bokkie (Potgieter) did not deserve to die. We used to make jokes about everything. He was never aggressive and I regarded him as a big brother who gave good advice,” Craig said. Enoch Buthelezi, 74, is another of Potgieter’s friends who was “shaken by his untimely death”. “I am left with memories of a good friend. I will miss his humour and knowledge of farming. It was our wish that one day we would be able to farm and help the small village to be self-sustainable. That is what Bokkie always wanted to do - help black people because they were so poor. He did not see himself as different from anyone. I am at a loss for words,” Buthelezi said. He described Potgieter as a “black man in a white skin”. Buthelezi recalled when angry community members marched to the police station last year after the murders of  well-loved local farmers Billy van Rooyen and Ronnie 
Lombard. “This is a close-knit community. Everyone lives in harmony here. People work on the neighbouring white farms,” he said. On Wednesday, Thulani Hloniphani Sibiya, 38, was sentenced to two life imprisonment sentences in the Madadeni High Court for Van Rooyen and Lombard’s murders. Sibiya had pleaded guilty. The trial of the six other accused, who are in custody, continues in April. KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said Potgieter’s murder was not linked to widespread farm killings. “He was a white man who lived in harmony with black people in the village. His death has angered the people in the village because he was adored,” Gwala said.  nkululeko.nene@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE