Durban- Individuals will pocket the proceeds of  a fund-raising golf tournament to be hosted by the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco), aggrieved members have warned. The event will take place at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club on Friday, where high- profile politicians and businessmen will be hosted by Sanco’s national treasurer, controversial businessman Roy Moodley. President Jacob Zuma is expected to attend its gala dinner at the Durban ICC on Saturday. Moodley features prominently in Jacques Pauw’s explosive book The President’s Keepers.  The book alleges, among other things, that Zuma was paid a R1 million salary by Moodley’s Royal Security for months. Some Sanco members, who spoke on condition of anonymity, were angry that despite the fund-raiser generating millions for the organisation, there were claims that Moodley had used the organisation’s name to raise funds for individuals apparently close to him. Moodley had previously served as treasurer for Sanco in eThekwini and KZN before being elected as national treasurer. Richard Mkhungo, KZN Sanco secretary, was allegedly one of Moodley’s close allies and benefited from the tournament. He denied this. “Sanco is supposed to be the people’s organisation, but not anymore. It’s full of opportunists who want to be rich.  The tournament has done nothing but cause division because all they want is money,” said the source. Both Moodley and Mkhungo apparently had access to party funds in the province despite neither being provincial treasurer. The source also said the tournament had been a provincial event before Moodley proposed that it become a national fund-raising event: “The funds raised do not assist the organisation, but enrich individuals, hence the organisation is divided, especially in KZN.” Another member said: “The organisation has forgotten its mandate. Sanco is meant to be a civic organisation but not anymore. Roy hijacked the organisation’s principles.” Moodley was not available for comment. Sanco general-secretary, Skhumbuzo Mpanza, said the proceeds were going to the organisation. Responding to allegations levelled against him, Mkhungo said KZN had no money and therefore could not misuse funds. He said the event was organised at national level. “I even pay for my fuel to fulfil the mandates of the organisation. I don’t understand which funds they are referring to. “Those talking are confused. Even when we have provincial executive committee meetings, we ask to be sponsored with lunch,” said Mkhungo. Sunday Tribune