For a healthy vagina, it all starts with your diet. Food affects every vital organ in our bodies - and nourishing the right ingredients can help maintain a balanced pH level - and spice up your sex life. And while many women swear by cranberry juice as the natural remedy to fight off urinary tract infections - there are other foods to eat that's good for your health. Sydney based dietitian and nutritionist Lyndi Cohen has revealed the foods and drinks women should consume that are beneficial for their vaginas. From Greek yoghurt and salmon to green tea and garlic, these are some of the nutritional - and surprising - foods we should be adding to our diet. 'It's all about our organs,' she told Daily Mail Australia. 'The nutrients we eat and the foods we eat impacts our health and vagina - and how it functions. Maintaining our pH level is very important. 'Eating the right food will keep the vagina lubricated, boosts your libido and even mood. Good mood means it will boost your libido.' FRUITS AND VEGETABLES 'There are three nutrients to look out for - Vitamins A, E and C,' she said. 'These nutrients are found in bright and colourful fruits and vegetables.' Ms Cohen suggested eating sweet potatoes, carrots and anything orange are high in Vitamin A - and libido-boosting foods to add to our diet. 'The vitamins helps with circulation, lubrication and libido - and it increases your ability to orgasm,' she explained. Bananas, sweet potatoes and wholegrain are also foods to add to your diet, she said. 'Cauliflower is surprisingly good for our diet too,' Ms Cohen said. 'The foods are all good for mood swings, and we feel more inclined to having sex. Women are very emotional so these foods help combat our emotions.' Another food she recommends is tomatoes because it contains a high level of lycopene - a 'powerful' antioxidant that helps prevent diseases. 'Tomatoes are a strange one but it contains good lycopene which helps reduce heart disease and cancer,' she said. 'It increases circulation so it helps men combat erectile dysfunction - and also helps women reach climax during sex.' GARLIC Surprisingly, garlic is a great ingredient to add to our diet because it's filled with antioxidants that helps prevent vaginal problems, Ms Cohen said.
'Garlic is link to circulation and it reduces risks of infections,' she explained. GREEK YOGHURT Ms Cohen said eating Greek yoghurt everyday was great for maintaining vaginal health because it contains probiotics that helps fight off bad bacteria. 'The reason why Greek yoghurt works is because  it contains probiotics - so it's great for improving our immunity,' she said. 'Women should be having Greek yoghurt every day for a healthy vagina.' SALMON Ms Cohen explained the anti-inflammatory compounds and Omega-3 found in salmon helps reduce menstrual pain. 'Salmon is a go-to health food because it helps reduce any menstrual pain or discomfort you may feel,' she explained. 'It also helps you feel relaxed and connected with your partner.'  GREEN TEA Green tea contains antioxidants that can reduce bladder inflammation, she said. Ms Cohen also suggested other drinks to add to your diet that are great for vaginas - kombucha and kefir [fermented milk] drinks. WATER 'Getting enough hydration - so the classic water is the key to flushing out toxins in our body,' she said. She said the easiest way to see if you need to be hydrated more is by looking at the colour of your urine. 'If your urine is light yellow, it's a good sign,' she said. 'But if it's dark yellow and you can smell it, it's a sign you need to hydrate more.' WHAT TO AVOID 'Anything high in sugar,' Ms Cohen said. 'These foods create imbalance to your mood and hormones - so this affects your sex drive and how you connect with your partner. Be mindful of the sugary drinks and lollies you consume.' She explained highly processed and high fat foods should also be avoided. 'High fat foods can leave you feeling bloated and sluggish and it's not food for the libido,' she said.  'I wouldn't recommend fast foods and fried foods. You need hydrated foods so more fruits and vegetables - and avoid food with high salt content. Lyndi Cohen is the author of the Keep It Real program, which features a dedicated section on anxiety. Daily Mail