The academy, on the KZN North Coast, was meant to open in December but construction workers said this was unlikely. It is alleged the workers have downed tools owing to financial issues with the construction company, Group Five. The building walls have been partially completed, but the roof has still to be put on. Sandheel Maharaj, a community leader, said the workers told him they stopped working two weeks ago. “The machinery is on the property but there are no workers,” he said. E-mails and phone calls were made to Group Five but there was no response at the time of going to print. The project was developed by the Coega Development Corporation, a state-owned entity that aims to ensure sustainable economic development. The school, expected to cater for pupils from Grades 10 to 12 from across KwaZulu-Natal, is in La Mercy, north of Durban. It was supposed to have several buildings including a media centre, computer rooms, laboratories and a hostel for more than 500 pupils. Department of Education provincial spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the specialist school would help improve the pass rate. “We have been struggling with maths and science. The institute has been designed to empower and further sharpen learners to be able to perform better in these subjects,” he said. Mthethwa said the school would be a type of institute where subject advisers and professors would assist pupils in technical skills to perform at a level of excellence. Construction of the institute began in 2016 after the demolition of the La Mercy Primary School. “Previously La Mercy Primary School used to cater for children in the community but once they moved to high schools, enrolment declined and we then catered for children from informal settlements,” said Krishnie Govender, the former principal of the school . According to Govender, former education MEC and former premier Senzo Mchunu had said in a meeting with the community that pupils and teachers of La Mercy Primary School would be transferred to a building at the neighbouring Seatides Combined School. Mchunu confirmed that he had attended meetings in La Mercy with the stakeholders of the project but could not comment further on matters regarding the education department as he was no longer part of it. Last year, Mchunu’s Education successor, Peggy Nkonyeni, told delegates at an education imbizo at the Sibaya Casino that the La Mercy Maths and Science Centre, then at a design stage, was part of a “robust departmental strategy to support the proclamation that KZN is a mathematics province”. SUNDAY TRIBUNE