Monika Tuncbilek said she fell in love with the city during the pageant in September. She said the pageant’s tight schedule meant she had little time to explore and had her heart set on returning one day, with “bigger plans”. Tuncbilek made news when she took to social media after the Mrs Universe pageant and made a video outlining damning allegations against the pageant organisers. The organisers have since threatened to take legal action against her. Tuncbilek, who runs the Honduras-based production and distribution company, Sula Studios, said her movie got the green light from local authorities to be shot here next year. She announced the news on Facebook this week. The script of the movie is being drafted by local writer, Liana Barciela Hassim, and is a story about an international screenwriter named Jennifer, who travels to South Africa to attend the Durban International Film Festival. “She becomes enamoured  with a local artist she meets, unaware that he has a girlfriend who is about to re-
enter the picture. One night, Jennifer is met by a crying woman outside her door. She feels an instant connection. She learns that the woman, Yemi, is Khalo’s fiancée. A stranger in a foreign land, Jennifer finds escape, distraction and understanding within Yemi and her dreams,”  Tuncbilek said. The movie would be sent to international film festivals in the US, Latin America and the UK. She also planned to screen it in South Africa. The cast would be sourced locally, except for one American actress. Tuncbilek said she would host auditions in Durban in January. Another of Tuncbilek’s movies is being screened in Honduran theatres. “I am very happy to be coming back to Durban. The last time I was there, I wasn’t given the opportunity to see the city and fully appreciate its beauty, although I did love what I saw. “The idea is to shoot the movie at some magnificent places. I feel that Durban is a special place with so much of history, but from where I’m from many people haven’t heard of it. “I want to put the city on the worldwide map. I think I can do that and local government has been supportive thus far,” said Tuncbilek.