It was reported that the 25-year-old was not coping with the loss. Ndaba surfaced this week when he released a statement admitting it was a moment of weakness because he had wanted to win. He assured the public he was fine and would now be focusing on producing great music. While he may not have won, there is a good chance that he might be successful. It has been seen that runners-up sometimes become as popular and, at times, more successful than the winners. Unsuccessful Idols entrants who have made a career out of singing include award-winning artists Amanda Black, Lloyd Cele, Shekhinah Donnell, Kyle Deutsch, Gugu Zulu and Thami Shobede, runner-up last year. Shobede released his album under the title Never Lost which he said was motivated by the losses and challenges he has undergone in life. “I am never lost through it all, I have risen above. A lot of people were saying I was robbed of the Idols title, they were saying I should have won. I did not agree with their views,” Shobede said. His words could serve as motivation to Ndaba, who was distraught after losing to Fielies. “When I did not win the competition, I knew I had made it in the industry. The plan was to use the platform to grow my music. I've been through a lot in life, I grew up without my parents and lived with relatives. “When I finally got a chance to know my parents, my father died and my mother got married to someone else. According to Zulu tradition, you don’t leave with your kids to another house and I wasn't going to stay with my mother,” he said. Shobede said when he lost out in a competition, he did not hold any grudge against the winner, Noma Khumalo. “The title was in my mind but when I got to the Top 16. I told myself that one of us will be a winner. It’s very wrong of a person to think they have worked enough to win, you must work enough to convince people to vote for you,” he said. “When Noma was announced as the winner, I congratulated and celebrated with her. I only cried at the changing room for like five minutes because there were people who were hugging me and they somehow evoked those emotions,” he said. Ndaba was not available for comment this week. However, his supporter, Jacinta Ngobese, said he was fine and was over his loss.  siphelele.buthelezi@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE ENTERTAINMENT