A recent report from the city’s disaster management and emergency control unit revealed that of their 343 cameras, 47 did not work. Thirty of the non-functional cameras are concentrated in the Central Region, which includes Durban’s CBD, where holidaymakers and visitors gather in large numbers over the festive season. City spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa blamed recent storms for the faulty cameras. However, two of the city’s Exco meeting reports in the months of April and August also showed a similar number of cameras had been out of order at the time. DA councillor Shaun Ryley said this was a major concern as the CCTV cameras were meant to be the eyes of the city. “During the council meeting, we were not given reasons why some of the cameras are non-functional and for how long they had been,” Ryley said. “It could be for technical reasons because we haven’t had vandalism. None of the cameras ought to be out of order because the footage recorded by these devices is essential in the fight against crime.”Recently, security at the Durban city hall has been stepped up, including the installation of additional cameras. A report tabled at this week’s Exco meeting by the city’s security management department revealed a high number of criminal activities in the vicinity of the city hall. DA proportional representation councillor Sharmaine Sewshanker became the latest victim of crime near the city’s headquarters when her cellphone was stolen in a mugging incident on Thursday. “I was in my car talking on my phone, when a mugger snatched it from me and disappeared into the crowd,” said Sewshanker. “I could not believe that the incident could have happened at City Hall. There are CCTV cameras positioned there but I know they have not been working for a while.” Mthethwa said the disaster management unit had begun infrastructure repairs where possible within the budget. She said the unit planned to finish infrastructure repairs before the start of the festive season. “About 90% of the cameras are not operational because of the storm experienced on October 10,” she said. “It must be noted that camera operational statistics are updated on a daily basis, as in some instances cable thefts and loss of electricity power have a major impact on CCTV operations.”Meanwhile, the Department of Transport has erected warning billboards on the uMhlanga and M4 freeways in a bid at curbing road fatalities. The billboards warn drivers to be observant and to adhere to the rules of the road.  siphelele.buthelezi@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE