Thembinkosi Ngcobo, head of the city’s Parks, Recreation and Culture Unit that was to host the conference, on Monday announced the cancellation. Zwakele Mncwango, provincial DA leader, expressed dismay at the cancellation. “Someone must account for this. Someone must pay back the money.” He said the conference showed poor planning from the municipality’s side. Mncwango said they had written a letter to mayor Zandile Gumede to make it a topic on today’s agenda at the city’s executive committee meeting. If the matter was not dealt with, they would escalate it to the Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube. “We know the mayor is arrogant, but she must be accountable,” he said. Mncwango said the cancellation was a case of “wasteful expenditure” because the municipality had allegedly set aside R2.2 million for the conference. He sent the Daily News a screengrab of the breakdown of the money allocated for the conference. Mncwango said this was the third time the event had been postponed. Also expressing his disappointment was Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the SA Hindu Maha Sabha and former vice-president of the SA Football Association. He was scheduled to speak today on the role of soccer in the struggle for liberation of the country. He said the issues that would be discussed would be important to South Africans. Dr Devi Rajab, academic and author, also expressed shock. “We were ready to go and had a nice, exciting line-up. This was going to be something really meaningful.” She said the cancellation was “unprecedented in many ways”, and supported Ngcobo in his endeavour. She hoped that if he got clearance from the municipality, the conference would take place. “It is obviously a political issue that needs to be sorted out,” she said. On a positive note, Rajab said although the conference was postponed, people at the venue took their own initiative. “A group of women and I thought we would form a women’s network,” she said. Responding to the criticism, Mthunzi Gumede, the mayor’s spokesperson, explained that provincial government held a social cohesion conference at the KwaMashu Christian Centre to bring it closer to the people. Gumede said they wanted to follow this example, but hosting it at Coastlands Hotel and Convention Centre in uMhlanga would not serve the purpose of the bringing the conference to the people. Gumede said they were conducting an investigation and did not currently know how much the cancellation would cost the municipality. He also said they could not say when the investigation would be concluded. “We regret it, as it was an unfortunate incident,” Gumede said. In a statement, the municipality said instructions to postpone the event were given last Thursday and that this directive was given to Ngcobo, city manager Sipho Nzuza and deputy city manager Dr Musa Gumede. Daily News