WIN TICKETS TO THE FACT DURBAN ROCKS PARTY, DETAILS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE STORY DURBAN - While many of the guests attending the Vodacom Durban July will arrive in their swanky car, DJ Tira, the owner of Afrotainment marquee will avoid traffic by all means, arriving in style blowing away those below. DJ Tira, whose real name is Mthokozisi Khathi, has told the Sunday Tribune that he will be landing at the Durban July on chopper this year.  The popular DJ, who goes by the nickname 'Makoya Bearings', would arrive in the company of his wife and competition winners who had won tickets to the event. “Everything is going according to plan, my team and I have been working very hard to make sure Afrotainment marquee is a success. I will land in a helicopter with the winners chosen, we are all about that lifestyle,” said Tira. Tira said they have increased the capacity of their marquee to host 700 people at the fully air-conditioned marquee. Tickets for the marquee are selling at R41 000 for a group of 10 or R2 000 each for general tickets. His tent will play host to the rich and famous and the political elite, include Durban mayor Zandile Gumede. While guests would be sipping on premium drinks and networking on the sidelines, the likes of award-winning rapper Cassper Nyovest, AKA, Babes Wodumo and other artists from his Afrotainment Record Label would perform in the background. “We keep on coming back to the Vodacom Durban July due to the support and demand from the people," said Tira. "This is the reason we had to enlarge our space as we would host 700 people unlike last year where we hosted 500 people. Tickets are still available, people can purchase and be with us. Afrotainment music will also be launching our new member’s the Nameless band.We have various of well-known people that we would be hosting like the Mayor Mam' Zandile, the Mpisane’s, Minnie Dlamini and Somizi,” said the DJ-cum-businessman. A fashion show featuring prominent and upcoming designers has been planned. Screens for the racing and private betting totes will be on display. Pleasure and entertainment will continue at the Fact Durban Rocks concert, which will take place at Moses Mabhida's People's Park after festivities move from Greyville. The concert will feature SA’s top performers from Black Motion, Naak Music, Dj Shimza, Big Nuz, Destruction boys, Riky Rick, and Okmalumkoolkat to name a few. WIN TICKETS TO THE FACT DURBAN ROCKS AFTER PARTY The Sunday Tribune and Fact Durban Rocks are giving away THREE DOUBLE TICKETS to the Fact Durban Rocks party at People's Park, Moses Mabhida on Saturday, July 1. Winners will be announced on our Facebook page and on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon. TO WIN: 1. Name one artist who will be performing at the Fact Durban Rocks concert at People's Park AND tell us who you would bring to the concert and why? 2. Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter/Facebook (@SundayTribuneSA), as well as @DJTira and tell us the answer using the hashtags #SundayTribune #FDRJuly. Winners will be announced on our Facebook page and on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon, June 27.