The ceremony, which will be broadcast on June 25, will celebrate black talent doing wonders on the music front globally, and for South African entertainers. It’s an opportunity to be recognised and prove that their work is worth honouring. Babes Wodumo, Nasty C and Super Mega AKA have received nominations in the Best International Act: Africa category. Another superstar flying the South African flag high is Amazulu sensation, Amanda Black, who was nominated in the Viewer’s Choice Award “Best International Act” category. We caught up with the Queen of Gqom and Record of the Year titleholder for SAMA 23 Nasty C, talking  all things BET. After missing out on a SAMA award, Babes Wodumo, hopes to come back with a BET. Picture: Instagram The lady from KwaZulu-Natal is thrilled about her performance at the after-party, raving about how she plans to wow the crowd the Mzansi way. “I’m going to show them what performing is with my dancing. I’ll perform something they have never seen before,” she enthused. Babes, whose real name is Bongekile Simelane, is proud of her native language, Zulu, and said that she’d always been looked down on for not speaking English  eloquently. All she had to say about that was: “Look at me now. I’m going to LA with my Zulu.” It has nothing to do with the language, she said. It’s all about hard work and talent. “It makes me happy that I’ll be sitting with people I have admired for such a long time, and I think I will be that fan who runs after them.” Babes said she is a last-minute preparer and hadn’t really figured out what she will wear. “I have realised that when I plan my outfits, they never come out as beautiful as anticipated but my last magic always shines,” says the Wololo hit-maker. She described her style as street-culture, relaxed and comfortable. That’s what she wants to portray on the night. She will be accompanied by her beau, Big Nuz star Mampintsha, and she said that even though they have a totally different sense of style, they’ll most probably pull it together for a gorgeous red carpet look. For funky hair, she said the only colour she hasn’t experimented with is pink, and that could possibly be the colour of the night - if she doesn’t go black. Nsikayesizwe David Jr Ngcobo, aka Nasty C, also said he hasn’t looked into what he will wear yet. But he is really excited about the upcoming trip. “It will all depend on how I feel a couple of days before I leave.” He is eager to meet Travis Scott because he is one of the people he looks up to, music wise. Tbe muso will be shooting a video, but  won’t reveal the details for now. Princess of Africa, Yvonne Chaka Chaka, will be recognised alongside Somali-Canadian social activist Ilwad Elman, while iconic R&B group New Edition will be presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award. Hip-hop artist  Chance the Rapper will receive the Humanitarian Award presented by Walmart.  @Amanda_Maliba and @Tsholo_MissT  Click here to Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter Or Click here if you prefer to like the Tribune on Facebook SUNDAY TRIBUNE