Members of the forum forced their way on to the construction site demanding 40% of the job be given to black-owned construction companies. All development then halted. Tsogo Sun chief executive Marcel von Aulock said the development was expected to recommence in mid-June once it had the thumbs up from eThekwini Municipality,  after changes to the plans. He confirmed construction was  delayed as a result of the forum’s interference. “We took the decision to shut down the site and re-evaluate the project. The interruption gave us the opportunity to re-look at the design of the upgrade. “As a result, a new plan had to be drawn up, which took time, and had to be submitted to the municipality for approval. “The original plan to enlarge the complex included approximately 20000m² of retail shops but that has been dropped due to the current economic climate in the retail industry,” said Von Aulock. He said the new plan increased the number of restaurants at Suncoast, while the underground parking and the high-end Salon Privé were redesigned. The original upgrade cost was R2.1billion but, with the redesign, this had been scaled down to R1.6bn. Van Aulock said the upgrade would take 18 months. Commenting on the forum’s demand, Von Aulock said the project had always been a joint venture between WBHO and OTCON, a black-owned partner. “The joint venture continues to embark on its programme of engaging black emerging contractors,” he said. The construction delays outraged casino patrons who struggled to find parking. The demolition of a wing and the parking area began late last year. About 450 parking spaces were lost as a result. The interruption in work prompted KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu and MEC for Economic Development and Tourism Sihle Zikalala to send a stern warning to the forum. They condemned its conduct, saying that disruption of local development would not be tolerated. Nathi Mnyandu, who heads the forum, said it was disturbing to learn that the casino owners had decided to proceed with the construction without consultation. “In our last meeting, we agreed that we will be updated on any progress. If they decided to involve black-owned businesses, why were we not consulted? We want radical economic transformation,” said Mnyandu. SUNDAY TRIBUNE