DURBAN -All roads lead to Durban this weekend and the world-famous society event of the year, the Vodacom Durban July, is not the only crowd-puller.
Friday night's Sharks v Blue Bulls rugby game is also bringing in the visitors, with some enthusiasts making a weekend of it and also attending Saturday's Vodacom Durban July - which is expected to be another sell-out. And the 55000 racegoers - including the rich, famous and stunningly dressed - will all help boost the local coffers to the tune of an esimated R260million. Durban Tourism said the bumper crowd would directly shell out R133.3million, while the broader spend is estimated at R259.8million. “Hotels will be chock-a-block and one hotelier told me that he wished he had another 100 rooms to offer,” said Charles Preece, chief operations officer of the regional branch of the Federated Hospitality Association of South Africa. And, as Vodacom Durban July fever kicks in, the questions on many a fan’s lips is: “Which horse is going to win? What are you wearing? And what will the weather be like?” As to which horse will win, Gold Circle’s racing guru, Andrew Harrison, said: “It’s anybody’s guess. It really is a very competitive field and nothing is out of it.” He pointed out that for the past five years a 20-1 horse had won the famous race. The favourites are still the same as last week: Edict of Nantes, followed by Al Sahem. Edict of Nantes was flagging earlier this week in the Gold Circle runner bean stakes (20 plants are grown at the offices, each one representing a runner in the big race), but it had perked up and shot up overnight. Designers have also been working around the clock to meet the demand from the fashion conscious and local designer Haroun Hansrot has even been called in to custom design water bottles for one “very opulent” hospitality marquee. “People are willing to spend to get something magnificent to wear for the race,” Hansrot said. The weather will also play its part in helping to make it a day to remember, with weather forecaster Wisani Maluleke of the regional office of the South African Weather Service saying that “the sun will be out”. Temperatures will hit 24ºC and the wind will be “moderate”, so there will be no need to hold onto those hats and fascinators all day. With the theme being The Colour of Magic, it promises to be another magical race day. Daily News