And even though he has shed 22kg, he is still a big force to be reckoned with. Always the man-about-town, the former deputy mayor and municipal speaker is still in demand at society events and there are some who say that it is not a party until Naidoo arrives. With a bulging diary - and matching midriff - Naidoo could be seen at business breakfasts, lunches and gala dinners all on the same day. He would have one course at one function, and leave to go to another event and have the next course there. “It was ridiculous,” he recalled. Naidoo was the deputy mayor for 10 years and was constantly called on to represent mayor Obed Mlaba and the municipality. When that term of office ended, he was still invited to function after function as the municipal speaker, and the kilograms continued to pile on. But nine months ago when he stood on the scale, he was shocked to find that he weighed 96kg. “I had lost count of the functions I had attended, but I began to realise that my suits were getting tight,” he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Naidoo and his wife, Jeevie, decided that it was time to “go on a new journey”, to cut out a lot of what is favourite Indian food: bread, potatoes, rice and roti. “We started a low-carb diet, but still stuck to three days of vegetables to maintain a balance, and to keep the cholesterol in check.” They came up with “cauliflower rice”: which is grated cauliflower cooked the same way as rice. “It’s a wonderful  alternative. Now we have curry with salad, or curry with cauliflower rice, or breyani and cauliflower rice,” he said. They also cut out sugar and now use a substitute, and make Banting bread with almond flour. “It doesn’t take long either: just 45 minutes,” Naidoo said. They have also cut down on oil and the use of their microwave. They are now using an air fryer to warm up food like samoosas. Chips are off the menu too, but there are some restaurants that make zuccini strips “which look like chips”. Although they do not taste the same, they are a “nice substitute”. And some restaurants offer their dieting diners Banting pizza. But having a burger without bread is “a bit hard”, Naidoo grinned. The couple’s new lifestyle also means going on a 5km walk three times a week. Shedding 22kg means that the famous fashionista’s wardrobe has also had to be slimmed down. “Well, my tailor has had to take them in, to fit,” said Naidoo, who has gone from a size 44 to a 40 slim cut. The Naidoos do cheat now and then, but know that when they do, it will quickly show up on the scales. “Like last weekend, when we went to a couple of functions in Johannesburg. When everyone wants to feed you, you can’t say no.” Naidoo does not go to as many functions now that he is no longer a municipal official. “The difference now is that we can choose which functions to go to, there is no obligation.” Naidoo says that it is easier to lose weight if you are doing it with someone else. His wife has lost 17kg. People are always commenting to him about his weight and he has proved an inspiration to many. Some of his fans have also asked him if his dramatic weight loss is because he has been ill. “I have never felt better,” he beamed. Naidoo is expected to cheat again on Saturday when he accepts some of the invitations to the Vodacom Durban July at Greyville Racecourse. “Well, I keep my scale in the bathroom and I have a ritual of going on them after my shower in the mornings, so I will be able to monitor my weight on Sunday.” He is not planning to lose any more weight, but rather maintain his 74kg, which was his weight “30 years ago when I was a teenager”. And what is he wearing to the Vodacom Durban July, we asked? “A chocolate brown Nehru-style suit with brocade work and a gold chain”, which his tailor is working on. Daily News