DURBAN – Planning on bunking work and "pulling a sickie" in the next few weeks? Well, you are not alone. According to a recently published survey by Pharma Dynamics – a colds and flu medicine provider – nearly 40 per cent of South Africans said they planned to call in sick this winter not due to any illness but because they don't want to go into the office. Pharma Dynamics surveyed more than 1 500 working South Africans across the country. Nicole Jennings, spokesperson for Pharma Dynamics says a combination of miserable weather and the spate of colds and flu to be expected in winter most likely makes June and July the most popular months of the year to take a "duvet day". “Nearly a third of those polled admitted that they’ve pulled a sickie before – 45% of whom said they do so two to three times a year, while a few chancers (15% in fact) do so even more often. The 40% whose conscience probably gets the better of them, can only bring themselves to do so once annually. “What makes matters even worse is that they don’t do so on their own… More than a whopping 51% rope in their partners and/or children to take a duvet day with them – 20% either didn’t have a partner or a child, which implied that if they did, they’d probably get them to bunk with them too. The remaining 29% preferred to do so solo,” notes Jennings. The top excuses for calling in sick range from: · Coming down with a cold or flu, stomach bug or migraine (78%) · Personal reasons (27%) · Home emergencies, such as a burst geyser, alarm problems etc (19%) · Stress and/or burn-out was tied with having to look after a sick relative or partner (15%) · Transport difficulties – bus, train, taxi running late or car trouble (8%) · Overslept (7%) · Making an appointment weeks ago that you forgot to inform the office about and can’t cancel at the last minute (5%) · Hangover (4%) · Broken out in a rash (1%)   Jennings says employers are perfectly within their right to challenge the authenticity of an excuse by requesting a doctor’s note or ask for evidence if they start to notice a pattern of absenteeism, which should keep the habit in check.  Gone are the days when sick employees had to phone the boss or office manager directly to offer an explanation. These days the most popular way to call in sick by far is SMSing or sending a WhatsApp (62%). Less than a third (30%) still does so telephonically (probably as a result of strict company policy) and 7% informs work of their absenteeism via email.  Other findings showed that more than 46% of South Africans are taking precautions in the form of a daily immune-booster or vitamin-enriched tablet to keep colds and flu at bay this season.  Jennings recommends taking a supplement that contains vitamin C, Echinacea and zinc, which in combination has been proven to strengthen the immune system. “A typical cold or flu can last up to a week, but if you’ve contracted a more severe strain you could be down for two weeks or longer, even in individuals considered to be otherwise healthy. The best way to thwart colds and flu symptoms is to get enough sleep, eating a balanced and healthy diet consisting of fresh fruit, vegetables and protein, drinking enough water and boosting your immunity with a supplement recommended by either your GP or pharmacist,” concludes Jennings.