Violent public protests and looting took place in KwaMashu township this week following unfounded allegations that foreigners were abducting young women and fleeing with them. Police have rejected the claims. However, the Dorning couple have opened a case of intimidation after being accused by the community. Last Saturday, teachers Bhekumenzi and his wife, Nonhlanhla Dorning, both 48, received an anonymous call warning them that an angry mob would attack them. The attack never occurred. Police spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said police were investigating a case of intimidation and said no arrests had been made. Pictures of the couple had been shared on Facebook last week, alleging they were responsible for selling human tissue and abducting children. “I fear for my children and wife. But I am not leaving my home because people will think the accusations are true. Let them come kill me if they want to. I have nowhere to hide. Our life is a mess at the moment. I am on special leave. I cannot concentrate on my work,” Dorning said. Both teachers could not go to school because they feared they could be attacked. Spreading fear They have been placed on special leave by their schools. “Our movements are limited, we are scared. At malls, people look at us with scornful eyes. We feel isolated from our communities. But I am hopeful because of the support I am getting from neighbours and colleagues who understand these are lies aimed at defaming me,” Dorning said. Dorning told the Sunday Tribune that a relative suspected of posting the pictures on social media was detained for questioning on Wednesday but was released two days later after his laptop and mobile phone were confiscated by police for investigation. However, Zwane could not confirm the allegations and would only say police were still investigating. The police have also slammed the sharing of “fake news” and blamed it for the looting. “As members of the community gathered to protest, criminal elements looted shops in the area. When police responded they were attacked by criminals who also fired shots at police,” police said. Acting provincial commissioner Major-General Bheki Langa said he was disturbed that people circulated fake information to cause “unnecessary panic and fear”. “Unfortunately, there are gullible people who believe everything they find posted on social media. “We have had reports of abductions which were found to be untrue. We are investigating a case that was reported to SAPS where a couple is being accused on social media of being behind these fake abductions,” he said.  nkululeko.nene@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE