DURBAN - One of the suspected masterminds behind the drug “Mercedes” was arrested on Thursday in New Germany in a joint operation between the Hawks and Crime Intelligence.
“We started the investigation into this man more than a year ago when children from KwaMashu died from using these drugs,” said a source, who could not be named as he is not allowed to speak to the media. Last year, the Daily News reported that three teens died and 32 were admitted to hospital after consuming the drug “Mercedes” - a new form of ecstasy. It was believed the teens had gone to a tavern in the township’s E-section before moving on to a “slaughterhouse” - places where the youth gather to take drugs. Their deaths resulted in a social outcry with Social Development MEC Weziwe Thusi calling for an end to school term-end parties. The source said during the operation they had an undercover agent buy many times from the man as they gathered evidence against him. They finally swooped in on him yesterday when their agent made a R25000 purchase. He said drugs, which consisted of ecstasy, crack cocaine and Methcathinone, better known as CAT, worth more than R2 million were found. The source said the alleged drug dealer was hands-on and he manufactured, packaged and delivered the drugs himself. People who wanted to buy drugs had to place their orders via cellphone. “The man was living a very lavish lifestyle and had top-of-the-range cars,” the source said. When told of the arrest, Mondli Zwane, KwaMashu K-section ward 41 councillor, said this would not change much. His ward is where one of the three teens - Siyabonga Mngadi, 19 - died last year. “It does not help as they will find someone else,” said Zwane. “The community has lost hope that drugs will be defeated. Parents now pray that their children do not become addicts or get trapped in that lifestyle.” He said as ward councillors there was little they could do. “What we do is to focus on drug users,” Zwane said. He said the best way was to keep children busy with part-time jobs and activities. Daily News