The Western Cape Human Settlements MEC said the letter was revived to tarnish his image to prevent him from being officially elected DA leader in the province. The DA would officially elect its leader at the end of the year. Madikizela also linked the re-emergence of the letter to supporters of KwaZulu-Natal MPL Mbali Ntuli, who is facing charges of liking a Facebook post that accused Western Cape Premier Helen Zille of being a racist. “There are people now who want to settle scores because they believe that I complained against Mbali. Now those people are making up stories, which are non-existent,” he said. Ntuli denied any knowledge of the the letter. According to a letter written by DA federal chairperson, Athol Trollip, in 2015, Madikizela had circulated an SMS accusing Maimane of being “not black enough because he is married to a white woman”. The letter also alleged that Madikizela had accused Maimane of surrounding himself with white people. Further, it is alleged that he had made the remark prior to the DA congress, where Maimane was elected as the leader. Trollip’s letter quoted Madikizela as saying “of course we can't allow a situation where Mmusi become (sic) the only black leader we elect out of this congress. I can say that in any platform.” Madikizela denied making these remarks and accused people who circulated the letter of having an agenda against him. “I am sure you have learnt that when we are approaching congress people come with all sort of nonsensical stories to tarnish the image of those they are competing against,” said Madikizela. Trollip had told Madikizela that he could not believe the allegations when he first received the complaint. “Sadly this disbelief was shattered when I was shown an SMS conversation that confirmed this,” Trollip had said in the letter. According to the letter, when Madikizela was confronted about his statement, he claimed to be entitled to his opinion. “How they take my opinion its (sic) up to them. “I didn't get this far in politics by being a populist and by telling people what they want to hear,” read part of the three-page long letter. The matter was allegedly reported to Trollip who wrote to Madikizela demanding that he “recommit yourself to the values and principles of this party that seek to make us a unique non-racial political home with mansions for all the people of South Africa”. A source said the letter had resurfaced because some supporters of Western Cape Premier Helen Zille had felt that she had unfairly suffered public humiliation when she was forced to apologise at a media conference for praising colonialism. They felt that Madikizela had received “a slap on the wrist". Daily News