“The allegation whether the South African government and the Reserve Bank improperly failed to recover from Bankorp Limited/Absa Bank an amount of R3.2bn cited on the CIEX report, owed as a result of an illegal gift given to Bankorp Limited/Absa Bank between 1986 and 1995 is substantiated,” Mkhwebane told a media briefing in Pretoria on Monday. “The correct amount of the illegal gift granted to Bankorp Limited/Absa Bank is in the amount of R1.125bn.” Mkhwebane said that the South African populace had been prejudiced by government’s failure to recoup those huge sums of money. “The amount given to Bankorp Limited/Absa Bank belonged to the people of South Africa. “Failure to recover the ‘gift’ resulted in prejudice to the people of South Africa, as the public funds could have benefited the broader society instead of a handful of shareholders of Bankorp Limited/Absa Bank,” she said. “The conduct of the South African government and the South African Reserve Bank goes against the ethos laid out in the preamble of the constitution and Section 195 of the constitution in respect of redressing social injustices and promoting efficiency.” Mkhwebane said the conduct of government and the SARB constituted “improper conduct and maladministration”. For remedial action, Mkhwebane has referred the matter to the Special Investigating Unit, which must in turn approach President Jacob Zuma to reopen the presidential proclamation R47 of 1998 “in order to recover the misappropriated public funds unlawfully given to Absa Bank in the amount of R1.125bn”. The public protector has probed allegations that CIEX, a covert UK-based asset re-
covery agency headed by Michael Oatley, was contracted by Pretoria to assist in investigating and recovering misap-
propriated public funds and assets allegedly committed during the reign of the apartheid regime. “The allegation whether the South African government improperly failed to implement the CIEX report after commissioning and duly paying for same is substantiated. "CIEX Limited was paid £600000 for services which were  never used by the South African government. "No evidence could be found that any action was taken specifically in pursuit of the CIEX report,” said Mkhwebane. - ANA