The Stoneham Sports field, which is the only playground in Ward 52, caters for many surrounding communities - including Bhambayi. It’s one of the oldest sports facilities in Phoenix and was regarded as a recreation place with its open space for other activities. Residents said since 2015 they have been opposing the proposed housing development by the municipality or any private developer. Residents said they had engaged all structures of leadership, including the MEC for Human Settlement. Last month, residents lodged a formal complaint to eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede. This week, the residents came out in numbers to stop the tractors from demolishing the fields to prepare for the housing development. Residents who have formed Stoneham Ratepayers’ Association called a series of meetings with relevant stakeholders seeking for help. Chairperson of the association Akesh Teeruth said they noticed the sports field was no longer a public place when they requested an outside gym from the city’s Parks and Recreation Department. “We thought an outside gym would complement the sports field and help residents lead a healthy lifestyle. “But we were saddened when the Parks Department told us they could not erect the gym since the sports field was listed as RS180 (special residential). “We want our field to be rezoned from RS180 to a sports facility so it can be upgraded. “While we are mindful of the need for housing, this should not be done by us having to sacrifice the very basic sports field that we were given,” said Teeruth. Ward councillor Boxer Zulu said as a newly appointed leader he had found the matter was very complex and it needed to be traced back to the 1980s, when the area was developed. He said there were many unresolved issues pertaining to the Stoneham lot. “According to the information we have, all the vacant spaces in Phoenix were rezoned as RS180 and some were sold to private developers including Stoneham. “A lot has been done on that place and private developers want to enter into the second phase of building flats which the residents are opposing,” he said. The City is investing the matter.