DURBAN – Attempts by the opposition Democratic Alliance (DA) to have the cancellation of the Social Cohesion conference on the eleventh hour discussed at the Executive Committee on Tuesday fell flat. Council Speaker and his ANC colleagues had it their own way in the end when city manager Sipho Nzuza finally had to explain why the matter was not on the agenda despite a submission of a letter to Mayor Zandile Gumede by DA provincial leader Zwakele Mncwango. Gumede was absent from the meeting and her deputy, Fawzier Peer, who was chairing the meeting, was at pains trying to control the meeting to an extent that she instructed Nzuza to respond to Mncwango’s request for an explanation. Mncwango had pointed out that Nzuza should at least explain why the matter was not on the agenda. Speaker William Mapena argued that there were processes to be followed for items to be added to the agenda and that the assertion that the issue was urgent had not been proven to the committee. "We don't know the element of urgency on this matter. Urgent matters are submitted to the Speaker and Mncwango says he submitted to the Mayor but we don't know when," said Mapena. Mncwango hit back at Mapena saying "sometimes we get confused” about our responsibilities and “the Speaker is not a member of the executive committee” so we can't write to him but to the Mayor and the City Manager". "We need to know who is accountable for this expenditure. Deputy Mayor, you are chairing this meeting so you can't be told by Mapena what to do. Section 82 of the Municipal Finance Management Act provides that officers be accountable," Mncwango said. Peer chipped in ordering that Mncwango's question be answered, but her call was suffocated by ANC councilors, lead by Mapena. Councilor Barbara Fontein threw her weight in support of her fellow councilors. “The city manager and the mayor are dealing with the matter, and the mayor is not here so we can’t deal with it now,” she said. The DA' s Heinz de Boer was not impressed by the reluctance to discuss the matter. “Why is the ANC so reluctant to have this matter dealt with now? If it can’t be tabled then what is there to hide?”. In the end, city manager Nzuza explained that he only got the letter this morning. In a statement on Monday, the city said it canceled the R2.1 million conference following the provincial social cohesion conference held in KwaMashu Christian Centre, at the beginning of this month, where a decision was taken that municipalities should take a cue from the provincial conference resolutions. The city also said a different venue that could accommodate more people and it had to be closer to the people instead of a hotel. The event was scheduled for yesterday and today at Umhlanga Coastlands Hotel, north of Durban. Daily News