BABES Wodumo's boss Mampintsha has admitted fault for the travel bungle that led to the mega Gqom Queen missing out on her first international awards nomination at the BET Awards. The awards are set to take place on Sunday. Babes Wodumo and Mampintsha were supposed to fly out of South Africa to the Los Angeles on Thursday, but were not able to board their flight due to failing to secure the travel visa on time. A scramble for intervention at the Department of International Relations and within the eThekwini Municipality, yielded no fruits, and the stars, both appeared before an urgent press briefing at a Point Waterfront Hotel in Durban on Friday afternoon.   WATCH THE BRIEFING FROM POINT WATERFRONT, DURBAN, Mampintsha, who is the owner of the record company, said they were in discussions with a reputable PR firm which has worked with the likes of AKA, to takeover the public relations management of artists in the stable, including Babes Wodumo.  However, he said when asked if it was time for the Wololo hitmaker to leave the record company, that would not happen as she was a product of the company. She concurred and said others had a chance to sign her up while she modeled locally, but Mampintsha encouraged her to sing. "As part of on-going discussions between WestInk and BET, it was understood that all arrangements pertaining Babes and an additional person would be made by BET team. This included transport, accommodation and visa application. Due to the fact that BET was busy with a number of priorities, a communication was sent to WestInk Administration on the inability of BET to arrange Babes’ visa. "As this information came, WestInk was committed in a number of activities which may have resulted in the communiqué not transmitted to the management timorously. Babes Wodumo has not traveled to the United States of America for her BET nomination," said Ntshangase. Ntshangase would not say if he was new to the West Ink Records team.  Mampintsha said they could not yet reveal the PR firm that would handle public relations affairs for the company as they were yet to sign a formal contract and were still in discussions. 'Babes' arrived at the press briefing with her alleged beau, Mampintsha. The two denied they were dating at the press briefing and said they were professional colleagues who were like siblings.   Babes wore a tight Ivy Park jumpsuit and sported her bright orange hair that was meant to be her do for the BET Awards. Click here to Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter Or Click here if you prefer to like the Tribune on Facebook SUNDAY TRIBUNE