Hundreds of other cancer patients at the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital face a similar plight. The patient, Nelson Nara-
samulu Govender, has been at the hospital for two-and-a-half weeks. He was diagnosed with lung cancer which spread to his oesophagus. His daughter Shireen Chetty said she complained to management at the hospital but was told that there were no oncologists available in public health care. “My father is terribly sick,” Chetty said. “I have been in and out of the hospital to monitor the situation. He needs immediate treatment but cannot get it. He cannot even eat because of the effect on his oesophagus. I am helpless. It’s the most painful thing ever to have to sit back and watch your loved one suffer knowing there is nothing you can do for them. The doctors at the hospital are also helpless and are telling patients that there is nothing that they can do.” She said that she was praying for a miracle and hoped the department would come up with a back-up plan immediately so that it would bring some relief to cancer patients waiting to be examined. “The situation is dire and you will never really know the impact of such a crisis until you are placed in this position. We just do not know what to do anymore. Not everyone can afford private healthcare and, if we could afford it, we would not have to go through this. There are so many other patients that are having to endure the same thing,” said Chetty. A nurse at the hospital’s onco-
logy clinic, who asked not to be named, said it was challenging and emotional for her too, to have to see patients suffer, and there was only so much that nurses could do to help them. “We are the first line of response for these cancer patients. We get shouted and screamed at. They call us for help and their families plead for us to do something but there is only so much that we can do because we do not have the expertise to treat these patients like oncologists do. “We are afraid of what the situation will be like next week when the final oncologist leaves. We are only booking patients for treatment dates in November, December and January. By then, most cancer cases could become much worse because cancer waits for nobody. “But what can we do? We are all praying for intervention and a solution to this crisis,” said the nurse who has been at the hospital since its inception.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za 