Hibberdene Care Centre has not been able to pay its water and electricity bills because the department has not made good on the R27 000 monthly grant it promised, manager Felicity Govender says.“We are on the verge of shutting down the facility.  I feel sad for the patients because this place provides therapy and brings them hope,” she say. But the department hit back, saying the centre was not receiving funds because Govender had not submitted the relevant documents nor had she registered the NPO on treasury’s database. Govender, however, says she does have tax clearance and has registered the centre with treasury. She says the centre’s 10 patients pay R1600 per month, but that does not cover expenses and salaries. And despite the promises that followed visits by district health officials to assess the centre she has not received any funds from the department, she adds. But on Friday, KZN health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo said he was upset by the claims Govender was making. “We never expected her to not understand the process. “We do value, need and support her services. We have been constantly engaging with her since 2014 to help her meet the requirements through our monthly visit to assess her care centre. “She has now qualified for funding after she had to do some alterations to the building and she recently signed the service level agreement. “Her funding of R330000 over a period of three years, which will be reviewed every year, is ready to be deposited into her NGO account. “The process was delayed because she had not registered her NGO on the treasury department database.  She also had to sort out a tax certificate with Sars before we could transfer money,” he said. Last year, Govender  had to sell two vehicles, gym equipment and a pool table to keep the doors of the care centre open. She says the department had continued to send her patients until she had no option but to turn them away. The only support she received from Ugu District Municipality was the land and she got funds from National Lottery Board to build the care centre, she says. “Last month we could not afford to feed our patients and appealed to Woolworths who gave us a once-off food donation and the Gift of the Givers gave us a donation of dry groceries.” Former school teacher, Gayle Robeck, 60, who is bipolar, says: “Without the help from the centre our conditions could have worsened. Perhaps we would be dead.” Another patient, Michael Warnock, 61,  who has a psychosis disorder, adds: “It is sad that the shelter could be closed. We are so happy here.”Nicola Connor, 29, from Kokstad,  has a mild bipolar disorder but can control it with medication. “I am doing well here at the centre. I have made friends and  life is good. “Sometimes I forget about my personal problems. I have been through an abusive relationship but we separated. On top of that I am giving up my one-year-old son for adoption because of my condition,” says the mother of four. A frustrated Govender wrote to the Human Rights Commission asking for  intervention in February this year, but the department accused her of being disingenuous as she had written to thank them for assistance in setting up the NGO. Department spokesman Des Motha said they responded to the HRC by giving them the facts and the timeline of engagement between the department and Govender. Dhlomo says the Life Esidimeni incident, in which more than 100 psychiatric patients died at the hands of  NGOs in Gauteng, taught them a lesson and his department is serious about protecting mental health patients.  nkululeko.nene@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE