The second International Jazz Extravaganza will be taking place in Durban last this month and judging ny the impressive lineup, you won’t want to miss it. From the big-band sounds of swing to the soulful notes of rhythm and blues, jazz-lovers will want to diarise June 17th when the show takes place at Durban’s International Convention Centre. The show will be headlined by award winning American jazz musician, Monty Alexander, along with his band, the Harlem Kingston Express. “The International Jazz Extravaganza is growing into Durban’s very own signature event for those passionate about jazz both in South Africa and from abroad. It is an intimate one-night-only affair featuring leading international and South African jazz musicians. Offering a superior four act line-up, five-star hospitality and an all-round best-of-class experience, the IJE is where music, fine-dining and networking come together in a luxurious setting,” said president and chief executive officer of the IJE, Sindile Xulu. This years lineup also includes Kurt Elling, Thandi Ntuli and Nduduzo Makhathini. “I am honoured to be returning to the IJE stage for a second year, as it is an event that puts jazz artistry at the forefront. For this year’s performance, I will be focusing on my umbrella project that I call 'iKhambi', which celebrates blackness and our various modes of healing through music. The IJE is also a wonderful platform to highlight my home province, KZN, and what it has to offer in terms of cultures, traditions, food and music,” Makhathini said. According to Xulu, the IJE’s focus on emphasising what Durban has to offer as an intimate music destination aligns with the focus of one of its presenting partners, the City of Durban. Durban Mayor, Zandile Gumede said, “Our city is well known for our generous hospitality, warm weather, and engaging cultures. The IJE gives us an opportunity to showcase more of Durban, and also accelerates our economic growth and local employment. We are proud to host this event for the second year running.”  Tickets to the IJE are available at Computicket. For hospitality and corporate packages, please contact bookings@ije.co.za or visit www.ije.co.za for more information.