DURBAN – Sixteen people have been killed and several others injured in vehicle crashes in KwaZulu-Natal at the weekend. KZN MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Mxolisi Kaunda said the crashes had saddened him and were a cause for concern. In the more recent incident, a person died and fourteen were injured after a taxi rolled multiple times by the V-Section robots in Umlazi on Monday morning. Rescue Care Paramedics who responded to the described the scene as "absolute carnage". "One person who was ejected from the taxi had sustained extensive injuries, unfortunately, succumbed to the severity of their injuries and was declared deceased on scene," Ceron Lennox, Operations Manager at Rescue care said on Monday. "Fourteen people who were also commuting in the taxi had sustained minor to moderate injuries in the collision and were stabilised on scene before being transported to nearby hospitals for the necessary definitive care they required. At this stage, the exact cause of the collision is unknown however SAPS and all other necessary officials were on scene and will be investigating further," she said. On Sunday night, eight people were killed on the N2 near Porth Shepstone when a bakkie carrying passengers had collided head-on with a truck, which left eight people dead.  All of the dead were allegedly passengers from the bakkie, while the truck driver escaped unharmed.  Only three passengers escaped with minor injuries, and were rushed to Murchison Hospital for medical care and trauma therapy, Netcare 911 paramedics said.  Forensic experts were sent to investigate the real cause of the crash.  A 46-year-old man also tragically died in a pedestrian crash on the N2 opposite Galleria Mall.  On Saturday, another head-on collision between a minibus and a truck, on the N2 near E.B. Cloete Interchange, left four people dead upon impact and 12 critically injured.  Another crash on the R103 Inchanga left two dead and one injured.  “It is rather disturbing to receive reports of crashes that claim the lives of 15 people in just one weekend. The fight against the road carnage can never be won if our behavioural patterns don’t change on the roads. Road safety is a collective responsibility and we all need to start observing the rules of the road. We will continue to roll-out our educational programmes and beef up on enforcement, but community participation is pivotal in this journey of saving lives. We are awaiting full reports from the forensic experts on all fatalities that occurred over the weekend. On behalf of the government of KwaZulu-Natal, I wish to send our heartfelt condolences to the families of the deceased and wish those injured and are in medical facilities a speedy recovery," said Kaunda. Daily News