I’m actually excited about the Durban July this year for some reason. For the longest time I have just ignored it, only to be roped in to cover the event for the Sunday Tribune at the last minute. And each year, after traipsing the Greyville Racecourse, I promise I'll never do it again. Of course that never happens and I always find myself back there the following year. But this year things are different. The theme (The Colour of Magic) is interesting, the party tents have stepped up their offerings, and the people I know who are attending this year are actually people I would want to hang out with or get comment from. The usual blesser types will probably be few and far between as a particular political party is having a conference on the same weekend. And the coolest pre-party of the VDJ is happening a week before the event. I am ever so grateful. Gateway Theatre of Shopping’s annual VDJ Fashion Preview has slowly become one of the definitive parties of the year. Since last year, the party has been held a week before the VDJ to allow people to pace themselves, and get outfit and make-up ideas as presented by the fashion and beauty brands who retail at Gateway. Previously, it was hosted on the Friday of the 
VDJ and it was just too much for many of us to handle. This year’s event features more Durban artists than before. Aewon Wolf, Kyle Deutsh, Sketchy Bongo and Nasty C are the headline acts. That should teach East Coast Radio to have more Durban artists on its line-up at this year's Durban Day. Mo Magic and Shashi Naidoo will be the hosts on the evening. I’m definitely looking forward to it. If you're also interested, check out Gateway’s social media pages. The event is on June 24. One of my favourite musicians, Samthing Soweto, has been performing in the city since Friday. Today is his final performance and it will be held at Seaman’s Corner in Hammarsdale. Samthing Soweto is one of South Africa’s most underrated musicians. An original member of The Soil, he left the group to pursue a solo career. He left a huge gap when he left the group, one that they have never really been able to fill, in spite of their success. It was Samthing Soweto's contribution that made their first album so spectacular, and it feels like something is missing now that he's gone. He’s always been an alternative musician, releasing music that has been mostly enjoyed by a niche audience. But I think the time has come for him to take his place in the industry as a power player. Not only is he a gifted lyricist and producer, his voice is one of the best right now. I really wish South Africans would appreciate good music that is outside their comfort zone. Sure, we can enjoy all genres, but there's just something about the alternative and soulfully blues-y music that Samthing Soweto does. So if you want something different to listen to today and don't mind the drive, I suggest you go to this show today. You won't regret it.