DURBAN -  A gang of armed robbers shot and injured a Blue Security armed response officer and a shot narrowly missed a second officer as the suspects fled the scene of a home invasion in Malvern on Thursday night. Blue Security operations director Brian Jackson said an armed response officers had arrived at the scene of a home invasion in response to an alarm activation in Dipdale Road at around 6.45pm. “Six suspects forced open the sliding gate to the property and reversed their black VW Polo into the  driveway. One of the suspects remained outside on the lookout. The gang then entered the home and caught a mother and her two teenage sons by surprise. The home owner was at the back of the property unbeknown to the suspects,” he said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “The robbers ransacked the house, forcing the brothers to lie on the floor and frog marched the terrified mother to the bedroom, demanding cellphones and other valuables. The suspects loaded valuables into their vehicle and grabbed the CCTV surveillance camera DVR recorder before fleeing the scene. As our officer arrived outside the property and parked his car a suspect who was waiting as a looking outside the house fired a shot at him. A bullet hit the top of the armed response vehicle windscreen, went through the visor and missed the officer’s head by millimetres before hitting and exiting the head rest,” he said. “Our officer went for his firearm in an attempt to return fire and got out of his vehicle but the suspects were relentless so he called for back up,” he said. “The suspects jumped into the getaway vehicle and sped down the road shooting indiscriminately at the back up vehicle that had just arrived. A shot was fired through the door of the vehicle and hit the officer’s right thigh before entering his left thigh and exiting again according to paramedics at the scene,” he said. Jackson said the officer was transported to hospital for treatment. Malvern SAPS attended the scene of the crime.
“We commend both of our officers for their swift response to the scene of the crime and for their bravery,” he said.
Daily News