Tent town is sparkling ready, the flags are flying and the weatherman is whispering that plenty of sunshine is forecast for the big day. But don’t bet on it. Like the race forecasters, he could be wrong. The Colour of Magic - the evocative theme for this year’s July - is all about inspiration. What does that entail? Everything and anything that is imaginative and captures the spirit of enchantment, says Tiffany Prior, the fashion programme director. Which horse will win? Could it be a back-to-back win for last year’s Conglomerate, or the much-fancied Edict of Nantes. Could it be the unpronounceable Krambambuli at long odds or the quirkily named It’s my Turn? Then again Nightingale and Black Arthur look in fine form. And who knows it might be a rank outsider that outwits them all! But that is just half the fun and half the story. The dignitaries, the jockeys lining up in their silks, the very rich, the very famous will all be there to celebrate July magic. The host chefs say they are keeping their food specialities a secret, but you can guess prawns, hundreds of them, oysters and outrageous desserts will be part of the offerings. The rest of the story is about party time, champagne and fashion, wild imaginative stuff from our own young local designers, the sort of fashion you would never wear, but that’s gorgeous to look at. Look out for what the invited designers, Terrence Bray, Dale McCarthy and Jane Wolff, Mxolisi Mkhize, Sadie Bosworth Smith, Sibu Msimang, Thula Sindi, Hangwani Nengovhela and Malcolm Kluk and Christiaan Gabriel du Toit, have in store. They include some classic evening gowns that could have come out of the Great Gatsby era. If you had R7000 to spare - per person, that is - you are probably heading for the Platinum Tower, a tall-decked structure which soars above all the other venues. Here guests can swan around in a luxurious lounge in the sky enjoying decadent canapés, a private complimentary bar and a small bottle of Moët & Chandon for each guest on arrival. Sorry - it’s sold out! Some of South Africa’s top musical talent will be doing their thing at The Jack Daniels Boomtown and Afrotainment hospitality venues, which will be the place to hang out for young, trendy and funky punters. In the line-up are Nasty C, Black Motion, DJ Fresh, Mafikizolo and AKA as well as Babes Wodumo. From pulsating energy to quiet sophistication. For the first time at the July, cool and sophisticated jazz sounds will be emanating from the new venue, Glenlivet JazzTown. We are told it will be a jazz lovers’ playground for cultured conversation and ever-so-smooth partying and five-star hospitality. The buzz is that the legendary Jimmy Dludlu will be headlining the urban rhythm gig alongside Afro-Soul vocalist Lira, and the new soul sound of Tresor. And finally did you know that the Durban July has its own rose? It’s named The July, which goes from hues of red and orange and yellow and looks like flames - the true Colour of Magic. Wear exceptionally glamorous but comfortable shoes. You want to look the part, but most of the day will be spent on your feet so comfort is key. Take something warm. Preferably use a taxi or transfer service to get there and back. But remember to book early. Get there early if you’re driving. Be in the area by 10.30am if you want to be in Greyville for the start of the races. The #vdj2017 posts will help guide racegoers through the day - and night. Click here to Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter Or Click here if you prefer to like the Tribune on Facebook SUNDAY TRIBUNE