DURBAN – Music sensations Babes Wodumo and Nasty C will promote Durban on their trip to Los Angeles when they attend the BET Awards, insisted the mayor of Durban after coming under attack from opposition parties for hosting a send-off breakfast for the pair on Wednesday. The breakfast also coincided with the city’s Youth Month plans. Durban Tourism head Phillip Sithole said Babes and Nasty C have become successful on the international stage and should be celebrated. He said this was part of their “taking Durban to the world” programme. The breakfast was held at Moses Mabhida Stadium and formed the backdrop for a video recorded during the event. Kwaito star Babes, whose real name is Bongekile Simelane, 23, is from Lamontville and Nasty C, Nsikayesizwe David Jr Ngcobo, 20, is from uMlazi. They were both nominated for the Best International Act: Africa category. The BET Awards would be held in Los Angeles on June 25. Babes is recognised for her song Wololo while Nasty C was the youngest recipient of an award at the 2015 South African Hip Hop awards, taking the best freshman award. While the city has not revealed the cost of the event, eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede said the city would host a number of youth empowerment events in June, Youth Month, where the city will outline its vision for young people. The city gave similar send-offs to the Boks, swimmer Chad le Clos, Ladysmith Black Mambazo, gospel group Ithimba Le Africa and the Clermont Community Choir. “I fully support the youth development strategy for the city in terms of business, sports, skills, the arts and all other sectors. These include a Youth Imbizo on radical economic transformation, which will be at the oThongathi Outspan grounds, and a celebration will be held at Mpumalanga Stadium, Hammarsdale to commemorate Youth Day,” Gumede said. Two more youth Imbizos unpacking the city’s radical economic transformation framework and how the youth can maximise the opportunity are planned for June 19 and June 24. The final event is the Youth Council on June 26, where the youth will speak about development issues affecting them in the city. Daily News