He was one of eight people who were killed in a crash on the N2 at Ezingolweni involving a bakkie and truck. The eight were all travelling in the bakkie. The truck driver and passengers sustained minor injuries. “We are having a very difficult time accepting what happened,” said his older brother, Celani Mkhize. He described his brother as a quiet person. “The only time he would talk was when he had a few drinks and would comment on things we were talking about. He was a good and well known mechanic and was nicknamed ‘Spanel’,” Mkhize said. Mkhize said the crash happened with one of the two vehicles that he owned. “I’m not the only one who is having a tough time dealing with my brother’s death. My mother is beside herself. She has just moved into her new home where she planned to have a celebration, but now has to prepare for a funeral. “What’s worse is that we were originally five children - two died some time ago and, with my brother’s death, there are only two children left. I feel for Siyabonga’s four children,” Mkhize said. Describing what happened on Sunday, he said: “It was a normal day like any other and Siyabonga had gone to buy a few drinks. He was supposed to come back early, but I guess he took a detour somewhere. I didn’t think it would be the last time I would see him.” He said he later received a call that he should rush to the scene of a crash in Ezingolweni where there was a vehicle that looked like his. “When I got to the scene I saw that it was indeed my car and I was filled with grief when I saw bodies lying all over the place. It was the first time I had seen such a bloody scene. I just lost hope that Siyabonga would have survived the crash. It was only my nephew who had survived. “Siyabonga was a great help as we worked together in our businesses. He also used to transport children to school,” he said. Sibusiso Gumbi, head of the Transport Department, met the bereaved families on Monday at the Ezingolweni Municipality’s offices. “Losing one’s life on the road is painful and it is even worse when eight people die. It is for this reason that we always urge people to exercise caution on the road to save lives,” he said. “What made it more painful was that many of the deceased were between the ages of 20 and 35.” He said the department was helping the bereaved families with funeral arrangements by fast-tracking the process. A case of culpable homicide had been opened and Gumbi said from initial investigations by police, it looked like the bakkie collided head-on with the truck. Six men and two women died. Daily News