The landfill monitoring special committee meeting held at the Shongweni Durban club on Wednesday night was delayed after some arguments on who should chair the gathering. Environmental activist Desmond D’Sa fired the first salvo at independent environmental consultant Dr David Baldwin’s audit report when he referred to it as a “lack of critical information” on the part of the affected communities. “That report cannot be accepted. Have you spoken to people whose cattle have died due to poisoned water? Your report is in isolation and should be reviewed because you, as the professional, have not spoken to the people affected,” he said. D’Sa said the committee was calling for a review due to a lack of consultation with the affected communities. However, Baldwin said his job was not to go to the communities but to look at the issue of licensing and study previous reports before approving it. “We did a health risk assessment on site, not on the communities,” said Baldwin. Grant Walters, the deputy director general for enforcement management inspectorate within the Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA), who was present, raised concerns, saying there were gaps in the report. Civil group Upper Highway Air director Lauren Jonhson also blamed EnviroServ for deliberately misrepresenting the hydrogen sulphide readings on its presentations to the community and the DEA, saying they were non-compliant. “We are waiting for EnviroServ to file it’s affidavit on the mystery polluter it blames for the health impacts. It’s inability to do so to date is telling,” Johnson said, EnviroServ chief executive Dean Thompson said the company had engaged with the community since the issue of the smell in the area was first brought to its attention in April last year. “We called a town hall meeting and agreed to participate in a working group with members of the community Regular updates were sent to the community members who attended these meetings,” he said. Thompson said the scope of work was instructed by the department and municipality. “EnviroServ was ordered to investigate fugitive emissions from the landfill and their subsequent health impacts” He said Enviroserv agreed in principle to a peer review. “We maintain that the site has been operated in a compliant manner. We are continuing with all agreed-upon remedial measures which are progressing well,” he said Click here to Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter Or Click here if you prefer to like the Tribune on Facebook SUNDAY TRIBUNE