Speaking to the Daily News, Motsoaledi said the exodus of oncologists from the province’s state hospitals had everything to do with the non-functional procurement processes and the awarding of tenders to incompetent companies in favour of local economic development. “The heads of departments within the provinces are responsible for the procurement. In this case, the KZN health department head messed up,” Motsoaledi said. “How do you expect doctors to work in hospitals treating critical and life-threatening diseases such as cancer without functioning equipment? Oncology machines are no ordinary machines; they are hi-tech, powered and complex equipment that requires constant maintenance by qualified service providers,” Motsoaledi said. He said poor procurement 
processes had brought the provincial department to its knees, and this was in breach of the Public Services Act. Health MEC 
Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo and department head Sifiso Mtshali needed to sort out the procurement system, he said. “This is not a problem of oncologists. KZN is simply using the wrong procurement processes and they are basically not functional,” said Motsoaledi. He said they had learnt from a director-general-led investigation that the province used a centralised technology service in the awarding of tenders instead of a delegation visiting each hospital to check on capacity to deal with such machines. Burden “If you do not service the machines and do not repair them, what do you expect? The cancer burden and its spread meant that there was more workload for these machines and they were then overworked in the case of the two Durban hospitals which were carrying the burden. “The broken machines at 
Addington Hospital had put an additional burden on Albert Luthuli Central Hospital and that is exactly the problem in KZN,” the minister said. The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) 
recently released a report that found the provincial Department of Health had violated the rights of cancer patients to have access to cancer healthcare services. The commission’s investigation began after a complaint from the DA in February last year about the state of oncology in the province. Motsoaledi said although he had not seen the SAHRC report, his intervention in the province had been under way for months. “Besides sending two teams to investigate and intervene in the matter, I have also appointed a team of former heads of departments to look deeper into KZN’s health department problems and report back to me. I have assigned them and provided them with a list of hospitals to look into,” said Motsoaledi. Mtshali told the Daily News that he could not comment on what the minister had claimed. “It has not been brought to me officially and, if this was said, I don’t know in what context it was said,” Mtshali said. Last month, after the litany of complaints against the department and demands for better working conditions and fully functional equipment at health-care facilities, the Daily News had asked Yusuf Bhamjee, the provincial health portfolio committee chairperson, what they had done to resolve this. He had said the portfolio committee took civil society complaints seriously and matters arising were referred to the department and received positive feedback. Yesterday, Bhamjee said they would meet oncologists who had left the department to establish their reasons for leaving. “We have engaged with the different organisations and the department about the SAHRC report. We’re trying to understand what the challenges are. We have listened to various organisations and acted with sensitivity to the concerns of the civil society. We recognise the challenges and we do realise the difficulties faced by both the department and the public,” Bhamjee said. The committee has an oversight role and has political clout in decision-making. Asked what would happen to whoever was found to be responsible for the situation the department found itself in, Bhamjee said “it would be premature to comment on that”. Ndabezinhle Sibiya, KZN Premier Willies Mchunu’s spokesperson, said the issues relating to the SAHRC report were being handled jointly by his office and the provincial health department. Sibiya said it was worth noting that in May, Mchunu met Dhlomo, Mtshali, Finance MEC Belinda Scott and other Treasury senior officials to find lasting solutions to challenges faced by the health department. “These challenges relate to finance, supply chain management, procurement in general, as well as the shortage of health professionals, especially clinicians in a number of special services, including oncology,” he said. A former senior health official, who did not want to be named, said Motsoaledi was correct in blaming the procurement system. However, the official said it was unfair to blame Mtshali for the “mess in oncology”. “Shouldn’t they be looking back to 2008 when these machines were procured for R120million? There were investigations into the matter, but nothing has come of it,” said the former official. Daily News