DURBAN - A SET of rugby poles were erected at Moses Mabhida Stadium by yesterday afternoon in preparation for the first international rugby match at the venue. The South African A team will take on the French Barbarians on Youth Day, a day before the Springboks take on the French national team at nearby King's Park. “Moses Mabhida is the ultimate South African playground and we look forward to hosting matches of this magnitude,” eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede said yesterday. Moses Mabhida Stadium's seating is further away from the field unlike King's Park, where spectators are closer to the action. Coach Johan Ackermann said new venues were a challenge. “I believe the players will adapt after one or two practices on the field. They're professionals who have played all over the world. This stadium is similar to the Hurricanes (in Wellington, New Zealand). They've got a job to do and they're strong men... The secret is if there's a nice crowd it'll be a home crowd for us as South Africans.”  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Coach Johan Ackermann believes playing at Moses Mabhida will not be a problem for the players.	Video: Duncan Guy/Independent Media Acting municipal manager Phillip Sithole said the match would expose the stadium to the international rugby community. “It will also deal with the doubts of the rugby community who will see that the stadium can host games.” Noting that June 16 and June 17 would be a “big weekend”, Sithole said the city thrived on events. The mayor said she'd request her executive committee to provide free tickets to poor township and rural people so they could watch the “historic” event. Reach out and touch it! Boks A captain Juan de Jongh at Moses Mabhida Stadium. Picture: Sibonelo Ngcobo/ANA Pictures  Follow @IOSNEWSSA on Twitter   Like us on Facebook  THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY