On Monday, the body of a baby boy was found discarded in a plastic packet at a dump site in Phoenix. The infant is said to have been fully developed, his umbilical cord removed and thrown into the packet next to him. SAPS spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane confirmed that a case of concealment of birth was being investigated, while Phoenix Child Welfare described the rise of child abuse as a pandemic and condemned the criminal justice system for seemingly protecting perpetrators rather than victims. Senior social worker Loretta Naidoo said: “Statistics prove that in most incidences of abuse the perpetrator is known to the victim.” Naidoo advised against protecting abusive parents. She said: “Residents do not want to get involved out of fear for their lives, but we are urging the community to come forward for help, or sadly the violence will pass to the next generation.” She urged parents to take note of signs of abuse in children, requesting young mothers and fathers to limit social media usage and enjoy family time where children could identify a safe space. Adeshnie Naicker, operations manager for Childline KZN, said the number of child abuse matters was escalating daily. Naicker explained that an abused child would show signs of distrust in adults, aggressive or withdrawn behaviour, bed-wetting or soiling with a disturbed sleep-pattern, unexplained injuries and low self-esteem, among other signs. Children may also have difficulty concentrating and be reluctant to go home, while older children may seek comfort in drugs and alcohol. The organisation pleaded with South Africans to protect children and described parents as the voice of their little ones. They called on them to contact the police, the Department of Social Services or any child protection organisation immediately if signs of abuse were evident. In a message to children, Naicker said: “Abuse is never your fault; tell someone if you are being hurt.” Aryan Benevolent Home board member Nirode Bramdaw said there was a definite increase in child abuse and malicious acts against children were becoming more dire. He believed the language and behaviour towards children needed to change. “It is often unseen, minor things that cause the most destruction in early childhood, so society needs to be more positive and reassuring instead of chastising and demeaning.” To build the self-esteem of a child who has been shattered by abuse was a harrowing ordeal, Bramdaw said. “It’s not an easy road to recover fully from such circumstances, but we have managed to make life-changing impacts on our children.” Child abuse has been highlighted in recent years by the tragic deaths of, among others, Rinaldo Elijah Kubair, who was allegedly strangled by his father; Shaheil Sewpujan, who was killed by his aunt and grandmother; and Baby X, who was allegedly tortured and murdered by her mother and grandmother. Their trial resumes next month.