Go throw your TV set away, and in its place you can install, a lovely bookcase on the wall. - Roald Dahl  As responsible parents, how often do you read to or tell your children stories? The answer, these days, may be rarely or never. With the tremendous amount of pressure on parents, less free time available, and the addiction to technological gadgets, the pleasures derived from, and immense benefits of, reading and storytelling for children is fast disappearing. It is important to make the distinction between story reading and being read to, from texts that have been written by others, and storytelling, in which we share a story from memory, talk about our own childhood or craft texts of our own. Children all over the world love listening to stories. They want to know more about their favourite characters and often try to emulate them. Reading and storytelling play a vital role in the growth and development of children as outlined below: 1 Improves literacy development Reading and sharing stories helps your child develop early literacy skills. It helps them become familiar with sounds, words, language, and the value of books. 2 Instils virtues in your child By telling your child stories that come with a meaningful message, you can definitely inculcate qualities like courage, honesty, etc from an early age into your little one. 3 Sparks creativity Reading and storytelling sparks your child’s imagination and stimulates curiosity. 4 Enhances verbal proficiency Reading out stories to your child is a great way to teach your child new words and pronunciation. 5 Improves listening skills Storytelling for kids ensures that they are not only more attentive, but are also keen to listen and understand. 6 A great tool for sharpening memory You can innovatively use storytelling to help improve your child’s memory. Once you have read out the story, you can ask him to repeat the same tale after a few days. 7 Makes them aware of their own culture and roots Telling your children stories from your childhood and folk-tales will make them more familiar about the different customs and traditions of  your family. 8 Broadens horizon Through the medium of storytelling, you can make him familiar with various places and cultures across the world. 9 Better communication Storytelling helps children learn the art of engaging in conversation and makes them more confident. 10 Helps them face difficult situations with ease Reading helps your child understand change and new or frightening events, and the strong emotions that can go with them. Reading stories and storytelling with children has benefits for grown-ups too. The special time that you spend reading together promotes bonding and to build your relationship. Narisha Singh is a retired teacher. She launches a free weekly #KidsBookClub today from 2 to 3pm at #HashtagBooks in the Shannon Drive Shopping Centre in Reservoir Hills. This afternoon, the focus will be on popular children’s author Roald Dahl.