Eight designers showcased their work this week ahead of the most glamorous social and sporting event of the year - the Durban July - on July 1 at the Greyville Racecourse. The Vodacom Durban July Invited Designer Showcase, presented by Durban Fashion Fair, wowed the audience with the interpretation of the theme. Cape Town-based icons Malcolm Kluk and Christiaan Gabriel du Toit set the tone with a breathtaking range of glittering iridescent fabrics over sequins. “That’s the magic of light, everyone will see a different colour,” said the duo as their models sashayed down the catwalk with a trail of white shiny fabric. Sibu Msimang followed with a textured romantic range inspired by the magic mirror, a silver feast of fabric and romantic appliqué on 
materials. Sadie Bosworth Smith, the 2014 Young Designer winner, took her inspiration from classic fairy tale illustrations, and said her range reflected a fairytale with vintage elements. Mxolisi Mkhize, the force behind the brand The House of St Luke, made a dramatic statement in black and white as he delved into the duality of darkness and light. The Durban duo of Dale McCarthy and Jane Wolff also flirted with a black and white magic inspiration, and contrasted elements of fragility and structure with a feast of their trademark intricate flower detail. Hangwani Nengovhela took her brand Rubicon into hot current trends, juxtaposing hard and soft fabrics in her striking trio of garments as her interpretation of the theme. Thula Sindi delved into natural colours and textures, and took the red element in the theme into a hue of natural earth tones in silk, satin and tulle, inspired by Mother Nature. Terrence Bray lived up to his reputation for delivering theatre and drama at this showcase event with another take on a contrast between black and white magic. His work reflected and incorporated pagan origins and symbols as the root of magic, and explored commonalities between the light and dark arts. Follow the IOS on Twitter Follow the IOS on Facebook THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY