Durban – The Titans of Bollywood, Vishal Dadlani and Shekhar Ravjiani, have confirmed they will be in Durban to perform the Vishal and Shekhar Live concert at the ICC for one night on June 30 at the ICC. They will do a second concert on July 2 at Emperors Palace in Joburg. And they have warned their audience to “wear comfortable shoes” to dance along during the show. In an interview with The Independent on Saturday this week, Vishal and Shekhar, who are known as musical maestros in India and have worked in collaboration with artists such as Akon and Vamps, said they were looking forward to their first concert in Durban. “We are going to bring a lot of energy, some crazy lights and visuals and, most importantly, we really sing. “Apart from that, we also do some surprise sections in each show that will blow your mind. Let’s put it this way: no two shows of ours are alike because the crowd is as much a part of our concerts as we are. “We know where we’ll start and know how we’ll close, but the journey in between is all about the vibe, the moment, the crowd and what they want,” said Vishal. They have sold more than 10 million albums worldwide and are known as award-winning playback singers, lyricists, music composers and directors. They have composed music for more than 60 Bollywood films that together have notched up $40 million in box office sales. They have also performed in more than 1 000 concerts worldwide. And they are coming to South Africa off the back of sold-out concerts in the US, France and Britain. Shekhar said: “We can’t wait to get to Durban. There have been so many requests on our social media accounts to bring our concerts to South Africa. A new crowd is the best crowd for us because we get to watch their eyes light up as they see Bo llywood brought to them in a way they have never seen. And we’re coming in hearing great things about super-enthusiastic and responsive South African audiences.” Bollywood movies produced and directed by the duo include Kaante, Jhankaar Beats, Musafir, Rudraksh, Salaam Naste, Shabd, Dus and Bluffmaster, among many others. For the past five years, Vishal and Shekhar’s songs have been voted number one and two in South Africa on the Bollywood year-end countdowns on LotusFM and HindvaniFM. Asked about their unusual request for 100 towels on stage during their concert, the pair laughed, with Vishal saying: “Why not 1 000? Seriously, they are not towels but napkins and we need them because we get as sweaty as hell. “We’ve got to give you guys a night you’ll never forget and that takes hard work. I’d recommend you carry some towels for us too and wear comfortable shoes because you’re going to be dancing through the show.” Tickets can be bought through Computicket.  Click here to LIKE us on Facebook   Click here to FOLLOW us on Twitter  The Independent on Saturday