DURBAN – South Africa's award winning rapper Nasty C and the latest Gqom sensation, Babes Wodumo, are off to LA for the BET Awards, but for "C", he will use the trip to shoot a music video for his track Allow, which features on his debut album – Bad Hair Extensions. The song features US hip hop star French Montana, who lives in the US. The young Durban artists Nasty C and Babes Wodumo are nominated in the Best International Act: Africa category. On Wednesday morning, the city of Durban hosted a send off breakfast for the pair at the Moses Mabhida Stadium where the two were urged to be brand ambassadors for the city abroad.   WATCH THE VIDEO To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Video: Siphelele Buthelezi/Independent Media  “I will be shooting a music video at Long Beach and Downtown LA (Los Angeles)," said Nasty C, whose real name is David Ngcobo Jr. "I will spend most of my time there working and doing a couple of Interviews. Growing up, I have always wanted to conquer the world, I am very happy to have been nominated in International awards, the BET awards,” said the 20-year-old Ilovu-born rapper.   The pair are expected to fly out of the country on Monday and Tuesday respectively.   Both have not prepared any outfits for the awards which take place next Sunday, June 25 in LA, however they have ideas on how they want to show up for the event.  Nasty C said he shops for new clothing items every week but for the awards, he would shop in LA and would probably dress like a hip hop star... as he normally does. Babes Wodumo said she would walk the red carpet wearing a traditional Zulu attire. “I have not designed or bought anything but I know how I want to look like," said 'Babes'. "I am Swati by origin but I grew up in KwaZulu-Natal and embrace the Zulu culture. I will wear traditional clothing with beads. I will do my own make – up and hair, I will put on my wig, it will be orange this time. I look forward to the trip, It would be the first I travel overseas,” she said. 'Babes', who grew up in Lamontville, a township to the south of Durban, said she would love to bump into US pop star Chris Brown in Los Angeles.  “I have celebrities that I would love to see like Chris Brown. Here at home people are always happy to see me, but this time as I go overseas, I will be more of a fan to other celebrities, I would have loved to see Beyonce, but I doubt she will be there because she is pregnant ,” said Babes Wodumo.  @SpheleleB   Click here to Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter Or Click here if you prefer to like the Tribune on Facebook   SUNDAY TRIBUNE