KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu has announced that the provincial government planned to unveil a series of activities marking the 50th&nbsp;Anniversary of the mysterious death of former ANC President, and first recipient of Nobel Peace Prize Inkosi Albert Luthuli.&nbsp; He was speaking during the special provincial funeral for anti-apartheid activist and Rivonia Trialist Kay Moonsamy, at the Clare Estate Crematorium, outside Durban yesterday. The 90-year-old former ANC MP Kay Moonsamy was honoured with a special provincial funeral, which was attended by political leaders such as Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Mac Maharaj, James Nxumalo and SACP s Jeremy Cronin. It is important to note that Cde Kay passed away few weeks before the month of July which marks the 50th anniversary of the mysterious death on a train track of Inkosi Albert Luthuli. This year there are other significant events in the in the history of the struggle for freedom and democracy in South Africa, said Mchunu. Kay Moonsamy s family saying their final goodbyes to the liberation stalwart. Picture: Nokuthula Ntuli/Independent MediaDescribed as an uncompromising non-racialist and fair leader, speakers heaped praises on Moonsamy who died on Wednesday after a long illness. Mchunu expressed his admiration of Moonsamy s fearlessness and unapologetic honesty even when times were tough. Through his unique ability to respond appropriately in his belief in the correctness of his approach in the face of changing dynamics in the evolution of our democracy, he managed to survive for much longer than many who wished him away from our politics, said Mchunu. KZN Premier Willies Mchunu and Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma arrive at Kay Moonsamy funeral.&nbsp;Human rights activist Ela Ghandi said: He was a true communist and did not just talk and read about communism but practiced it as well and I believe that his life was a message to all of us to walk the walk so that we can create a better world, . Moonsamy s granddaughter Dr Cassandra Naidoo described him as an exemplar of discipline who, even at his old age, was the first get up every morning and last to go to bed. Grand dad was very affectionate and always referred to his daughters and granddaughters as darlings and very rarely with our first names, she shared.SUNDAY TRIBUNE