This followed its report indicating that there has been a significant increase in murders, rapes, corruption, assaults and torture involving police officers. The police watchdog tabled its report in Parliament in which it details incidents of wrongdoing by the police, and the officers under investigation by Ipid for the offences. The Ipid report has found that police officers were involved in 51 rape cases. Out of the 51 rapes, a total of 25 police officers were on-duty when they allegedly committed the offences. Most of the sexual offences were committed in Gauteng (15), followed by the Western Cape (10) and KwaZulu-Natal (seven). In the Eastern Cape, there were also seven rapes by the police. In the Free State there were three rapes reported and in Limpopo, North West and Northern Cape there were two incidents listed in each province. Ipid said it was concerned that there has been a four percent increase in the rapes committed by police members on duty. This is an increase from 24 rape cases to 25. Ipid also found there has been an increase in the number of deaths due to police brutality. It said deaths due to police action increased from 159 last year to 207 this year. The police watchdog said this is an increase of 30%. Gauteng had the highest number of deaths due to police action. There was an increase from 45 last year to 59 this year. It was followed by KwaZulu-Natal with 51 deaths due to police action. This is an increase from 48 last year. In the Eastern Cape, there were 42 deaths owing to police action, an increase from 20 deaths a year ago. In the Western Cape, there were 20 deaths this year compared to 17 last year, said Ipid. Meanwhile, in Mpumalanga, the number of people who died at the hands of the police went up from 10 last year to 12 this year. The Free State experienced a big increase from three people last year to nine in the current year. However, in Limpopo, five people died due to police brutality. This was less than the eight people who died in 2016. In the North West, five people died compared to six last year while in the Northern Cape the figure went up from two deaths to four this year. Daily News