My favourite part of the VDJ is in the morning, where all the fashionable people walk around, showing off their outfits. Like peacocks, they strut and twirl, while the judges pick the best dressed and ignore those who either overcooked their looks or just didn’t know what they were doing. A favourite pastime of mine at the VDJ, is taking pictures of horribly dressed people on my phone and then sharing them on social media, asking people why they thought their outfits were a good idea. So to avoid all that ridicule, I asked a stylist to give tips on how to get racewear fashion right THE VDJ IS A HIGH CLASS EVENT- LOOK THE PART “I think people forget that an event like the Vodacom Durban July is a high class event, attended by members of high society. There has always been a dress code for these kind of events, no matter the theme, and that is to look presentable at all times. Following the theme doesn’t mean you have to now look outrageous. You can still look very elegant, while still on theme. I wish people would remember what kind of event they are attending.” MARQUEES SHOULD HAVE A DRESS CODE FOR THEIR GUESTS “Royal Ascot has a handbook they release every year, with a guide on what can and can’t be worn at the event and I think we also need to do the same here. I know of one marquee that has a strict dress code and doesn’t allow any sneakers, denim or risque outfits in their enclosure. As a result, their guests are always elegantly turned out and look like they belong.” SEXY DOESN’T MEAN REVEALING “There’s this perception that in order to be the sexiest person in the room, you need to wear revealing clothes. It’s so wrong. You can still be the sexiest person at the VDJ, without everyone looking for pieces of material to cover your exposed body parts. There are so many ways to dress up in an elegant way, while still being sexy. We see it all the time.” HOW TO INCORPORATE THE THEME “This year’s theme- The Colour of Magic” is one of the easiest in recent years and that’s because it’s open to interpretation. Don’t over think it- have a colour you love, looks good on you and you feel magical in it? Then that’s your colour of magic. For those who take it literally, there are colours like black, white, metallics and iridescents, that do have that edge of magic. Sequins, too, have that mystical quality. I would suggest that you have one element that alludes to the theme and make it the focal point of your outfit this year. I’m wearing black tie, as I am doing the red carpet reporting for a marquee and I have decided to wear a sequined blazer.”