In his closing address of the party’s provincial general council on Sunday, chairperson Sihle Zikalala said the 
province was unanimous on the resolution it would take to the national conference 
next week. “We do not subscribe to the notion that the election of a deputy president implies that that comrade is automatically ordained to be a successor to the incumbent. “In addition to such unwritten tradition, the leadership election should be driven by the tasks of that moment and the quality of the available pool of leadership rather than a supposedly natural selection due to the current leadership position,” Zikalala said. But political analyst Protas Madlala is not convinced that the stance taken by the ANC is genuine. “That is how they mobilised with Zuma against Mbeki, whom they accused of denying Zuma the presidency when Zuma was deputy,” he said. Zikalala, who had been preaching party unity throughout the conference, said the province’s interests should not compromise the unity of the ANC. “As KZN, we are going to intensify engagement with other provinces on the issue of leadership of the ANC,” he said. Super Zuma, the party’s provincial secretary, said the party also resolved that changing economic ownership patterns toward radical socio-economic transformation was the way forward. “Land distribution without compensation constitutes the most rational and progressive way towards restoring the dignity of the dispossessed,” Zuma said. Zikalala added that the pursuit of radical economic transformation must include fighting corruption. He said the “good programme” of radical economic transformation would be sabotaged by corruption. “We need to move with speed to economically empower the majority. We are firm on land expropriation without compensation. As an approach to this we are going to engage the ANC (at the national conference) to lobby all African parties in parliament to review the constitution. If that fails, we can go for a referendum.” Madala said the parties “sudden” turnaround on land policy was nothing but a populist strategy aimed at getting votes. “Land is such a sensitive topic, they are trying to win the votes, it’s a vote gimmick because the majority of people who vote in this country are black and landless. “Since 1994 they have been compensating for land, but now that the EFF is saying ‘no 
compensation’ they are jumping on the bandwagon,” Madlala said. Madlala said the party could not be trusted on it’s anti-corruption stance either. “They have been singing this anti-corruption thing, it’s become a cliché if you review all state-of-the-nation addresses by the president, but yet we see corruption going on daily. “Corruption starts from the top down, ANC branches are just tender commissions. If they are serious about corruption they may have to build thousands of prisons,” said Madlala. Another political analyst, Zakhele Ndlovu, said the ANC was failing dismally to manage the succession debate and that it posed a threat to party unity. “There’s no consistency in them saying ‘let’s look for the right person’ when they are the ones who punt Ramaphosa as the person to succeed Zuma. “Why would you pick someone as a deputy if they don’t have what it takes to stand in for the president?” asked Ndlovu. He said it was difficult to believe the ANC. “You still have people in senior leadership who have clouds hanging over their head,” said Nldovu. “With young people edgy, making noise about the land issue being neglected, political parties need to be careful with their rhetoric. “The ANC, particularly the Zuma camp, is trying raise the land issue because it is very central to radical economic transformation. It comes as no surprise that the ANC is making all the right noises. But is the ANC genuinely committed to that?” Daily News