Buddy Govender, a senior manager at eThekwini Municipality and well-known sports  personality, broke the news on Facebook at the weekend. His post read: “Victory Lounge is CLOSED! “It is a sad day today (Saturday, June 17) as the legendary and world-renowned Victory Lounge on the corner of Victoria and Grey streets, in the heart of the Casbah, has closed its doors for the last time. “All of us have some memory of the iconic shop/restaurant that served our families for decades. “Personally, I have very fond memories of having grown up in the area. “Today, talking to Kanagee Moodley and Billy Moodley, the owners of Victory Lounge, I could not help but think of all my family members who frequented this shop daily. “Billy and Kanagee hope to relocate the shop and to continue providing their timeless favourites. I know that they will still do magic. “Special thanks to both of them for keeping me close in terms of this transition. I have also recorded a video of them bidding us all farewell - I will post it as soon as I have edited it. Little did I ever imagine, as a boy sitting with my uncle Farouk Abdie at the famous Victory Lounge milk bar having delectable milkshakes, that I would have the honour of being served the final packed sweetmeat box from Victory Lounge A sad day indeed.” Reacting to the news, more than 130 people commented on the post and shared their fond memories of the well-known restaurant. Paul Peter said: “Really sad. Such fond memories. I remember like 45 years ago as kids my dad would take us there. Last year, after ALL these years I took my 19-year-old son there and made him feel and experience eating there. “It was indeed the most awesome experience going back there Indeed historic and nostalgic.” Rani Ramlal said: “A sad day. We have fond memories of Victory Lounge. My late granny always stopped and bought delightful snacks for us after collecting her pension. “In fact, that was her last stop before she boarded the bus. We also used to stop and buy snacks after college on the way home. I hope you guys get a good venue and open soon.” Vee Yesudas said: “My late dad shared some fond memories of how he used to sneak my mom off during their courting days for lunch at the renowned Victory Lounge for their daily delicacies. “Years later, he made sure all his kids got to enjoy and experience the same lovely dishes. “Little did I know that I too would one day reminisce about my taste experience. Thank you for the experience and good luck with your next venture.” Daily News