Parliament - ANC divisions spilt over into Parliament on Tuesday after one of the MPs differed with her party colleagues on a position to block SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni from briefing the finance committee on the national carrier’s finances. Peace Mabe, who was appointed to the standing committee recently, broke ranks with her ANC colleagues and called on Myeni to go ahead with the briefing to MPs. This is in spite of the tough stance three ANC MPs in the finance committee took not to allow Myeni to make a presentation because all the SAA board members were not present. The board had boycotted the meeting with MPs, raising questions about whether to continue with the meeting. But ANC MPs Pinky Kekana, Dikeledi Mahlangu and Thandi Tobias-Pokolo stood their ground and refused, ordering Myeni to go back. They said she should return only when the rest of the board was present. But Mabe, who previously chaired the portfolio committee on public service and administration, said Myeni should continue with the briefing. “I feel if the chairperson, who is the captain, is here, the meeting should continue,” said Mabe. But Tobias-Pokolo disagreed and said the meeting should be called off and Myeni not be allowed to address the committee. “There are serious allegations and challenges at SAA and, for the first time, the board is not here. I forgive honourable Peace Mabe because she has no clue what is happening. I will take her here to support the ANC caucus. When we want to engage we want to engage members of the board and not one individual,” said Tobias-Pokolo. “I forgive Peace; we will brief her. As the ANC caucus, we are not going to entertain any issue without the board,” she said. Mahlangu also backed her colleague, saying Mabe was not on the same wavelength as the other caucus members. “I understand where Peace Mabe comes from. I don’t want us to expose the chair (Myeni). For us to come here was not easy, Mabe. Let us release the chairperson to get her house in order,” said Mahlangu. Kekana said the issue was about compliance by SAA and that was why they wanted the board to be present before them when making a presentation. She said Myeni could not do that alone and they wanted the board members present. Myeni was accused by fellow board members of missing eight board meetings. But this was denied by Myeni on Tuesday. She told MPs she had attended all meetings. Opposition MPs said the board’s absence was an indication of a boycott against Myeni. Daily News