DURBAN – Allegations that Gqom Queen Babes Wodumo was set to miss out on her trip to the BET Awards were not true, Babes Management said on Thursday. Melody Mhlongo of West Ink Records, the music record label the Wololo hitmaker is signed to, responded to the Sunday Tribune at 11.28am on Thursday in a thinly worded response. She said: "Thank you for your email. Those allegations are not true, we are currently busy with the preparations". She had been asked to comment on allegations that there was a scramble to secure a travel visa for Babes Wodumo ahead of her proposed trip to Los Angeles for the BET Awards, where she is nominated in the Best International Act: Africa category alongside Durban rapper Nasty C amongst other local acts. However, Viacom International Media Networks, the organisers of the BET Awards, told the Sunday Tribune on Wednesday night that they were aware of problems related to Babes Wodumo's travel arrangements. “As Viacom International Media Networks Africa, we have assisted the 2017 BET Awards nominees in securing their travel requirements in a speedy manner. However it has been brought to our attention by the management of the nominee in question (Babes Wodumo) that she has not secured a visa. We are in contact with the nominee’s management and are working together to find a solution”. Babes Wodumo's management have also reached out to the eThekwini Municipality and the Department of International Relations for assistance. It is understood that both units have written letters of motivation to the American Embassy, although the final decision lies with the American authorities. Dirco spokesperson Clayson Monyela said although they have written the letter, the decision was not theirs to make. "Her management approached us yesterday (Wednesday) but guys we can't do anything, we can't break their rules, it's the Americans that have to take a decision about her visa application. The department issued out a letter which was confirming Babes as one of our nominated artists and our knowledge about the trip to the US for the awards, they will produce that letter to the embassy who will then decide," said Monyela. The head of eThekwini's international relations, Eric Apelgren also said the city was doing all they could to assist and had written a letter to the embassy.  @SpheleleB  Click here to Follow the Sunday Tribune on Twitter Or Click here if you prefer to like the Tribune on Facebook SUNDAY TRIBUNE 