What they gained was comradeship and a close bond with one another for the first time in 50 years, said Crossmoor Crisis Committee member Omi Nair. The frustrated community have had enough and will ask the municipality to take steps to protect their municipal-owned land. The residents were expecting to meet various eThekwini Municipality officials at the Crossmoor Secondary School on Thursday night. One of their requests was to fence the vacant municipal land off. In the interim, Metro Police are patrolling the area throughout the day. Nair said the invasions started on March 20 on green belts between the Higginson Highway (M1) and behind houses along High Terrace, Sego Lily, Golden Poppy Crescent, Coriander Close and Granada Street. It spread to 15 other plots in nearby Moorton and Shallcross. “In the first week it was an ongoing battle with the invaders. It was something we have not experienced, including the time when the wind blew teargas in our direction. The invaders provoked us but we made it clear we would not give them a chance. We also did not want another 1949 riot. Patrollers feared being shot in a drive-by shooting,” Nair said. “We have been deprived of sleep. We sleep for maybe four to five hours a day. Some patrollers have to go to work exhausted. This affects their work productivity levels. Why should we look after municipal-owned land? What are they (municipal officials) doing about it? They have all the money and resources to prevent this,” she said. The committee also called upon the municipality and the police crime intelligence units to arrest the person behind the land invasions and to unmask, name and shame that person. Nair said slumlords were allegedly trying to sell pieces of land for between R600 and R3 000. “We can no longer be passive bystanders. We will not leave our homes. Why should we pay for a security team to monitor municipal land? We have already paid for walls, gates, burglar guards, armed response and alarms,” she said. A mobile police centre has been set up to monitor the area. Road representatives report to the steering committee who then liaise with police on the ground. This prevents police from receiving a barrage of calls, including false alerts. “Before this we did not know some of the residents. Now we know each other on a one-on-one basis. “We also found out there were opportunists causing problems and dividing the people for their gain,” Nair said. The residents have created rosters and street patrols where the women of their community patrol from 8-10pm and the men between 10pm and 5am. Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, said they could not fence off the vacant pieces of land because not all vacant land in the city was owned by the municipality. “There have been instances where invaders have gained access to fenced off pieces of land. Private property owners need to take the necessary steps to protect their properties,” she said. Daily News