The Department of Home Affairs held dialogue sessions at the Durban Playhouse that sought to discuss the challenges faced by refugees in the country. Deputy Minister Fatima Chohan spoke about a new smart card for refugees in the country. She said just like smart ID cards, the refugee cards were part of the department’s efforts to move away from the old green Identity Document. The card would have a refugee bar code and identity number. This was part of the department’s efforts to fight fraud and corruption. She said the department planned to start issuing the first batch of refugee cards by the end of the year. She also lauded the country’s efforts in dealing with refugees and pointed out that South Africa has been recipient to about 2 million asylum seekers since 1998. This was in contrast to the EU, which had 3.4million asylum seekers and declared it a crisis even though the union has 28 countries. One refugee who has been trying to get permanent residence in SA is Elvira Munezero from Burundi. She has been in the country for 13 years. She said yesterday’s dialogue gave her hope that people saw her as a human being and not as a refugee. She said she hoped one day to be integrated into South African society. Another refugee, Caroline Kabongo of the Democratic Republic of Congo, has also had problems integrating into South African society. The 43-year-old said the past 16 years in SA had been a learning experience for her. “One of the first misconceptions I saw was that South Africans were living large. I learned that the majority of South Africans were struggling too.” Her children do not have birth certificates, despite being born in SA. World Refugee Day also reminded her there was much to be done. Despite this, she said she was better off here than living in war-torn DRC, where corruption was rampant. Everything had to be paid for, she said, from a nurse putting a bandage on to paying the guard to open the gate to enter a hospital. On whether she would one day return to her native DRC, Kabongo said it was difficult to say as the country was still ravaged by war. Daily News