This after home affairs portfolio committee chairperson Lemias Mashile dismissed a written request by the DA’s Haniff Hoosen following reports suggesting that Gigaba, now the Finance Minister, interfered in the granting of citizenship to the Guptas. The department’s director-general, Mkuseli Apleni, is expected to brief the committee on the citizenship saga on Tuesday. It is now almost a week after EFF leader Julius Malema made public e-mails that appeared to show interference by Gigaba in the granting of citizenship to the business family said to have close ties with President Jacob Zuma and some cabinet ministers. The e-mails showed that Gigaba, during his tenure at Home Affairs, had overruled a senior official’s refusal to grant the family citizenship when they did not have five years’ physical residence in the country. But Gigaba defended his action, saying he had used the powers granted to him in his previous post. He cried foul, saying there was a campaign to tarnish his reputation and attack his integrity. Meanwhile, the EFF has threatened to approach the courts to have the Guptas’ citizenship revoked. However, Hoosen has insisted that Gigaba should be summoned to testify under oath to explain the “preferential essential” because he maintains a suspiciously close relationship with the Guptas. “This will allow Parliament to interrogate why the Guptas received Malusi Gigaba’s stamp of approval, despite the then director-general refusing their application.” Hoosen also said the decision to make the Guptas citizens of South Africa when they did not qualify showed the lengths to which Gigaba was willing to go to please the ANC’s captors. “The DA has also uncovered that Minister Gigaba failed to properly publish in Parliament his granting of citizenship to the Guptas, as is required by law. “The requirement for publication in Parliament’s annual, tablings and announcements was never complied with.” Hoosen further said he had yet to receive a response from Mashile, and hoped he would get one at their meeting today. Mashile said he could not summon a person when there was no decision to hold an inquiry. “He is no longer the minister of home affairs. I have jurisdiction over the home affairs minister,” he said. He also said that there was no “dispute” to warrant summoning Gigaba. “You can’t summon someone when there is no dispute. “It is only when people speak and you find that there is something that is not tying up,” he said. Daily News