The Durban High School pupil was named U15 player of the year at the KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union Awards held at Kingsmead recently. The accolade came off the back of a memorable season for Sambhu, who was the standout player for the KZN U15 team during December’s national week, held by Cricket South Africa. The leg-spinner is a tricky customer and made his presence felt in Potchefstroom among the best age group players from around the country. His top performance was a five-wicket haul against Namibia. “I was shocked at first,” Sambhu revealed when asked about what the award meant to him. “It was definitely a surprise, but it is very special. To be recognised like this is an amazing feeling.” Sambhu started playing cricket at the age of 6 and his junior career took off after he impressed in a trial at his home town club, Chatsworth Sporting. He has been a regular fixture in the provincial set-up since then, having also represented the KZN U11 and U13 sides over the years. “Representing the province gives me a lot of pride. Playing as a team and getting to know each other has been a big plus for me,” he said. In addition to his success at provincial level, Sambhu has also established himself in DHS’s U15 outfit. He also made his KZNCU Premier League debut for Sporting last season. In his maiden outing he took two wickets against an experienced UKZN team. “I think playing Premier League cricket is important for my development. Playing against bigger boys will give me more experience,” said Sambhu. Sporting coach, Jason Sathiaseelan, expects big things from Sambhu. “He is one for the future. He has a good head on his shoulders,” he said. The Sporting mentor believes he will get more opportunities in the coming season. “We played a friendly against a team from Delhi last week and he scored 52, so we know what he is capable of. He will get better with time as long as remains focused,” Sathiaseelan said. “He certainly has the potential to play at a higher level. He has great technique and is a positive thinker.” During the off-season, Sambhu plans to work on his batting. “I made the provincial team as a bowler and, while I did contribute with the bat, I know that can do better.” “I have to keep working hard and not overthink things. I am ready to take on the challenges,” he concluded. SUNDAY TRIBUNE