The fidget spinner, which was marketed as a device for children diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism and autism spectrum disorder, is being recalled because of reports of children choking on smaller parts that dislodge from the metal or plastic device. Although no cases have popped up locally; in the US, Australia and the UK, fidget spinners are being recalled by the thousands after parents came forward with horror stories of choking children. In Australia, the mother of an 11-year-old boy said her son was injured when he threw the spinner into the air and it landed on his face. In another incident, a 7-year-old boy was rushed to hospital when he swallowed one of the discs. Meanwhile, Racheal Landers, a former Durban teacher now living in Atlanta in the US, said at least 200000 of the spinners were recalled due to becoming a choking hazard. A few Durban schools have prohibited pupils from bringing fidget spinners to the classroom. Cindy Geldenhuys, principal at Birdwood School in Sherwood, said the fidget spinner was a toy and, just like all toys, they did not belong in the classroom. “Fidget spinners have been advertised as having great benefits for pupils with learning difficulties. However there is no scientific evidence to support this claim. They are visually very distracting, not only to the pupil playing with them, but also to the others in the class. In addition, the low-level noise made as it spins is a further disturbance,” she said. The result, Geldenhuys said, was that concentration for the “fidgetter”, as well as the surrounding pupils, was reduced rather than enhanced. At Penzance Primary School, principal Hendrik Havemann said fidget spinners were banned. “The main reason was that the pupils would play with the spinner during lessons and, with children, it would be all eyes on the spinner and not on the teacher teaching the lesson,” he said. “I think it is a really nice toy to play with, but just not in school,” Havemann said. Daily News