DURBAN: A LOCAL mother of two is set to take on the universe as South Africa’s representative in the Mrs Universe 2017 pageant to be hosted in Durban, its first time on African soil. Trisha Poona, 37, will be among the bevy of beauties vying for top honours when the pageant is held at the ICC on Saturday, September 2, where her husband Vishal and children Ruan, 6, and Ziva, 5, will be rooting for her. A stranger to pageantry, Poona was prompted to enter last year's Mrs South Africa pageant. She did, and after a last-minute scramble to secure her entry, she placed among the finalists. While Poona’s journey through the Mrs South Africa selections helped her empower young women, she hopes her Mrs Universe appearance will take the campaign to another level. Poona said: “This is a platform not only for self-discovery, but to do good for others on a global scale.” The Mount Edgecombe-based fitness and image consultant will have a lengthy to-do list as the local entrant. Not only will she be required to put her best glamour foot forward, but her duties will include showcasing Durban to more than 80 international participants and a global audience. “It’s a dream come true to be representing a country that is beautiful in appearance and diversity, and this is a great opportunity to draw attention to the warm city of Durban.” The city came to host Mrs Universe thanks to KZN’s Tracey-Anne Agget, runner-up in the 2016 pageant, who convinced the organisers to come here. Before her ICC appearance, Poona and women’s rights activists will embark on the #OneVoice march from King Dinuzulu Park to Durban City Hall on Wednesday. Dressed in black and wearing gold ribbons, the women hope to make a statement on behalf of victims of abuse. Similar marches, on the same day, are to take place worldwide. A survivor of gender-based trauma, Poona takes pride in the resilience that sparked her passion for the campaign against gender-based violence. “I was able to retrieve my independence, respect, and sense of self-worth to heal again. We (women) have to take control of our lives,” she said.  SUNDAY TRIBUNE 