DURBAN - A new wave of informal dwellers has moved into prime D’Moss land in the Kenville/Sea Cow Lake area of Durban, and the local ratepayers are mounting a campaign to get them out.
The Kenville/Sea Cow Lake Ratepayers’ and Residents’ Association say they will continue to pressure the municipality to speed up housing delivery that has been promised to the land invaders. “We cannot allow this form of invasion to continue,” said association vice-chairman Ashok Saikoolal. “It is really disturbing that this prime environmentally-sensitive land is being denuded of indigenous trees and shrubs as more and more shacks are appearing at an alarming rate,” he said. Situated between the northern sewer works in the west and Gumtree Road in the east, Saikoolal says that the land was a very important roosting area for many species of birds that are seen at the sewer works, which is declared a bird sanctuary. “The conservancy is home to numerous species of plants and animals, notably the banded mongoose and a very large troop of vervet monkeys. “Industrialisation and housing is robbing the environment of its fauna and flora; this is the last piece that we need to fight for and save. “The intrinsic value of the fauna and flora existing in this ecosystem in this area cannot be compromised.” Saikoolal recalled that the first group of people invaded the conservancy about 20 years ago, and although further invasions were stopped at the time, there were assurances that the informal dwellers would be moved off, but that never happened. “Now we have a new wave of people moving in and houses are being constructed in the indigenous bush.” While there were about 2000 families living in clusters of informal settlements on one side of Sea Cow Lake, the newcomers were on the other side of a hill, Saikoolal said, as he pointed out new shacks, some of them built on uneven, sloping land. He also pointed to a hosepipe coming from a municipal toilet on a nearby hill, which was watering what he said was an illegal vegetable garden. Asked what the municipality was doing to move informal dwellers off the land, Tozi Mthethwa, spokesperson for eThekwini Municipality, said that most of the informal settlements in the Sea Cow Lake area were on privately-owned land - and that the appropriate department was acquiring the land for housing development. “Due to land and environmental constraints, the project is planned in phases, with phase 1 being at the Gumtree Road Cluster (of informal dwellings) and the Smithfield Road Cluster.” There were environmental constraints with the Boxwood Road Cluster of informal settlements and this grouping of people would have to be relocated to other available projects. Referring to the 2000 families living in the various clusters of informal settlements, she said there was no vacant land available at the moment to accommodate large numbers of families. The council had a zero-tolerance approach to land invasion and was committed to putting an end to the practice, she said. The Land Invasion Unit, whose job was to control, monitor and prevent illegal buildings from going up, was visiting the area and would respond to complaints from the community and other line departments. There were challenges in planning housing development for all the families in the area because a large portion of the area could not be developed because of steep land, geologically unstable land, stream lines, wetland and associated buffers, flood lines and D’Moss areas. “The municipality’s primary obligation is to protect and preserve land with the purpose of utilising it to unlock future development opportunities for the growth and sustainability of our city. “The municipality has a backlog of 400000 units still to be built and this number will continue to spike if we don’t take decisive action to prevent the mushrooming of new informal settlements.” Private property owners whose land was under threat of being invaded were urged to apply for court orders and to immediately report trespassing to the police. “No criminal act will go unpunished because land invasions halt our service delivery plans. The city does apply for court orders based on specific threats at that time,” Mthethwa said. She called on the public to report invasions of land or municipal property to the city’s Land Invasion Unit at 0313114220, 0313114083 and 0313114024 (working hours). The after-hours and weekend phone numbers are: 0313114702, 0313114667, 0313114669 or 0313114701. Daily News