Durban - The family of the man whose decapitated head was nearly sold to a traditional healer for R20 000 said Thembinkosi Nzimakwe was a “quiet and harmless” person with great respect for others This made it difficult for them to come to terms with his “evil and painful” death. They were speaking after a brief court appearance by one of the two men accused of killing Nzimakwe on Monday. It is alleged he was alive when he was beheaded and his body dumped in the bushes in Cato Crest. His head was in the process of being sold to a traditional healer, near the traditional medicine market in Durban, on August 4, when one of his alleged killers was caught carrying the head in a backpack. It is believed that a traditional healer had instructed the two men to behead Nzimakwe while still alive in order to make a powerful muti. Nzimakwe, 33, originally of Ncenjani homestead in Bizana in the Eastern Cape, moved to Durban in 2015 and rented a room with his younger brother, Mvuyisi. He was last seen two weeks ago, leaving for work at a construction company. When he did not return home that Wednesday night, Mvuyisi thought he might have spent the night drinking with his friends. Two days later, a distraught Mvuyisi told their family in the Eastern Cape that Nzimakwe was missing, but the family told him not to panic and to give it another day. Before approaching the police, Mvuyisi contacted his brother’s place of work to establish if he had reported for duty, but learnt that he had not. Now frantic with worry, Mvuyisi sensed that something was amiss because it was not like Nzimakwe to disappear for days. On the Sunday, Mvuyisi opened a missing person’s case at the Cato Manor police station. “I was told to go to Durban Central police station and, judging by the police’s response, it seemed like they already knew what had happened to my brother, but were not sure. It was only on the Tuesday that the police were able to link him to the man who was beheaded and his body dumped in Cato Crest,” said an emotional Mvuyisi. His eldest brother, Vuyani, said the family was shattered by the tragedy. “He was a quiet person. My brother could not harm a fly. I fail to understand what he did that was so terrible that his killers had to do something so painful to him. He respected people and had strong values, that is how we were raised,” he said. Nzimakwe’s neighbours also described him as a respectful person who loved his job. Vuyani said their family was traumatised by the incident. “Our mother is taking this very badly. It’s shocking enough to hear that your child has been murdered, but to find out that he was beheaded was a terrible blow. She keeps praying that maybe the police made a mistake and that her son would come home at the end of the month,” said Vuyani. He said when Nzimakwe found a job in 2015, it was a huge relief for their family. “He left home to find better job opportunities and assist the family financially, especially after our father passed away. Everyone had to do something for the family to survive.” They are not yet able to bury him because DNA investigations to match the head to the body are still under way. Daily News