Ten years ago, the eThekwini Municipality started the recycling project which was later introduced to more areas. DSW provided households with a three-month supply of orange recycling plastic bags. The municipality says plastic bags are collected until 5pm daily. The project was intended to “protect the environment, promote re-use of resources, reduce waste at landfills and promote the separation of waste at source”. The municipality has complained that residents were not using the orange bags correctly, using them for domestic and garden refuse instead. The waste that should be placed in these bags is cardboard, cereal cartons, plastics, plastic bottles and Tetra Pak materials. Although there is a high demand for recycling materials, DSW has failed to continue providing residents with recycling bags. In 2014, the municipality announced it would be providing residents with clear plastic bags for the recycling of glass bottles and cans. However, in areas such as New Germany, these bags were provided for the first time last month. Daily News readers weekly complain on Back Chat about not receiving their orange bags. Maduri Singh, a Kharwastan resident, said she was at her “wits’ end” over the recycling bags. Either they don’t receive them or they are not collected once filled. “I am at the end of my tether with the service with regards to ‘saving our planet’. It’s two weeks and our orange bags have not been collected. Dogs have torn our bags and our verges and pavements are strewn with litter,” Singh said. The DSW customer helpline rings and rings without being answered. “I called DSW and after a 15-minute wait was told very curtly that bags were definitely going to be collected. However, that did not happen.” When Singh asked about the delivery of orange bags, she was told, “we’re having a problem with the supplier”. “Is this supplier the only company in South Africa that can manufacture these bags? It’s almost two years, and the municipality still can’t get it right.” Singh has decided to stop recycling. “Today is a sad day for me, as I have chosen to discontinue recycling. The effort and passion I have had has now been crushed by our incompetent municipality.” Tozi Mthethwa, eThekwini head of communications, said the municipality appreciated participation and partnership from residents in the recycling project and looked forward to their continued support. “eThekwini Municipality services 365000 households with 15 orange bags every quarter. That translates to an estimated 5.47million orange bags delivered to residents every three months,” she said. Rishi Singh, chairperson of the Clairwood Ratepayers’ Association, said residents always get the black domestic refuse bags, but not the orange recycling bags on time. “The bags disappear. Residents don’t close their gates, so people walk in and steal them,” Singh said. Arisha Govender-Ramjanek, chairwoman of the Merebank Ratepayers’ Association, also said they received the black bags regularly “but I haven’t received orange bags in a long time”. Residents who are not receiving their orange bags can contact the DSW Helpline on 
0313031665/0313227080/
0313118804 or e-mail: kdbarec@durban.gov.za