Durban: The issue of land invasion in eThekwini came under scrutiny during Dr Phyllis Naidoo’s memorial lecture at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Westville campus this week.
It all started with ANC stalwart Eddie Naidu posing a question to Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer, who was present, asking how the city was going to curb land invasion, which he said was rife. Looking at Peer, Naidu said an urgent intervention was needed before it was too late. Just when the programme director was heading to where Peer was seated, ANC treasurer-general Dr Zweli Mkhize intervened, saying he would answer the question. “The ANC and the government cannot do anything about land invasions. If they invade your land, you must go and seek a court order. “This is a problem because sometimes you let people stay for about six months and after that you say they must leave. “You must provide them with a place to stay. So that’s why the ANC cannot do anything about land invasions,” Mkhize said, looking at Naidu. Naidu was not impressed with Mkhize’s response. Speaking to the Sunday Tribune Herald later, Naidu said he was not pleased. “We open cases, but nothing happens. I’m not happy at all with his response,” he said. Areas hit by land invaders included Clare Estate, Springfield, Puntans Hill, Sea Cow Lake and Reservoir Hills, Naidu said. Guests gathered at the Gandhi Luthuli Documentation Centre during the event, held under the theme, “Advancing the Platform of Non-Racism - Marking 70 Years Since the Signing of the Three Doctors’ Pact.” The Three Doctors’ Pact was signed by anti-apartheid activists, former ANC president Dr Alfred B Xuma, Dr Monty Naicker and Dr Yusuf Dadoo in 1947. Their families were represented by Mthetheli Xuma, Dr Kreesan Naicker and Roshan Dadoo. Addressing the crowd Dadoo’s daughter, Roshan, said: “I don’t think non-racism makes us lose our identity. It doesn’t mean we lose our ethnicity, ancestors, language or culture.” Corrupt Roshan also took a swipe at Mduduzi Manana, the Deputy Minister of Higher Education, who allegedly attacked a woman, asking: “How is it okay that such things are happening under the ANC government? “I really think we have to challenge these matters if we are going to recapture the spirit of non-racism and unity,” She was equally vocal about the state of the ruling party. “Where does the struggle go to from now? I don’t think we want to continue down the route of a corrupt and nepotistic state which is stealing our money.” Kreesan and Xuma, called on people, regardless of their race, to unite and make South Africa a better country. SUNDAY TRIBUNE