DURBAN - Emergency services responded to road incidents that left one dead and thirty-four people injured in various road incidents in and around Durban on Monday and over the weekend. Six people were left injured on Monday morning after a head-on-collision between a bakkie and a light motor vehicle in Isipingo Hills. Russel Meiring, ER24 spokesperson said when ER24 arrived with other emergency services, they found that the occupants in both vehicles had climbed out of the vehicles. Head-on-collision between a bakkie and a light motor vehicle in Isipingo Hills. Picture: ER24 “Paramedics assessed the patients and found that six had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. Fortunately, no serious or fatal injuries were found on the scene. The patients were treated for their injuries,” said Meiring. Earlier, one person was injured after a T-Bone collision on Bram Fischer Rd (Ordnance) Road. Garrith Jamieson, Rescue Care Operations Manager said, “Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find that two vehicles had collided in the junction before coming to rest against a robot. One person had sustained moderate injuries and was stabilised on the scene”. A T-Bone collision on Bram Fischer Rd (Ordnance) Road. Picture: Rescue Care Paramedics In another incident, four people were left injured after a five car pile up on the N3 Durban bound, opposite the Pavilion mall. “Just after 6am Rescue Care Paramedics arrived on the scene to find the damaged vehicles in the fast lane. A total of five vehicles had collided into each other. Four people from the vehicles had sustained various injuries and were stabilised on the scene,” said Jamieson. Meanwhile, two people were left injured after four vehicles crashed into each other on the corner of Moore Road and Manning Road in Berea. Ten people sustained various injuries after a taxi collided with a vehicle on the M13 near the St. Johns Bridge in Pinetown on Sunday evening. Three people were injured on Sunday evening after a T-Bone collision on Otto Volek Road in Pinetown. On Saturday morning eight people were left injured after a taxi collided with a wall on South Coast Road in Mobeni. A taxi collided with a wall on South Coast Road in Mobeni. Picture: Rescue Care Paramedics While on Friday, a man was killed after being run over by a vehicle near Dunkeld Road in Westville. “The man was lying in the yellow lane of the road. Upon further assessment, it was found that the man sustained fatal injuries. Unfortunately, nothing could be done for him and he was declared dead on the scene by ER24 paramedics. The vehicle that had apparently knocked the man over was standing a few meters away. The driver sustained no injuries,” said Ineke van Huyssteen, ER24 Spokesperson. The cause of the incidents were unknown but police were on scene and will be investigating. Daily News