Durban - The cold front has hit KwaZulu-Natal with reports of snow in the Southern Berg and the Midlands as for north as Mooi River and Estcourt. Snow Report SA founder, Rob Ansell said snow has begun falling at the top of Sani Pass and that it started snowing on the southern parts of the Berg last night. "It has started snowing this morning - we are expecting it to continue. At the moment, we've only got 1cm of snow lying on the ground. "There are some areas in the KZN Midlands near Impendle that have up to 5cm already. At Sani Pass, we are expecting up to 30 and 40cm today," he said. Temperatures at Giants Castle at midday today registered at -6 degrees with a further 10cm of snow expected to fall this afternoon. Affected areas in KZN include the Midlands - near Impendle, Nottingham Road, Dargle, Mooi River and Estcourt. Severe weather conditions with maximum temperatures of 6 degrees are also expected in areas near Kokstad, south of the province. Graphic showing the cold front across KZN and the Eastern Cape at noon on Thursday. SA Weather Service Traffic officials have urged motorists to take extra care in slippery traffic conditions. The N3 Toll Concession’s Con Roux warned motorists to avoid areas where heavy snow is expected to fall. Roux confirmed the N3 to Johannesburg was open and free of snow. Numerous KZN beaches are closed due to heavy surf conditions: the KZN Sharks Board said some beaches in Durban, Salt Rock and Margate Main Beach would stay open for now. However this was dependent on the lifeguards who would make appropriate decisions depending on the prevailing surf conditions. Parts of the Eastern Cape are covered in blanket of snow as well. The Independent on Saturday Snow Tourism: What to do Snow is fun and an exciting novelty. But these are some of the measures you should take to ensure your safety and to make that trip to the snow as hassle-free as possible.
Check your vehicle is roadworthy: A thorough check of your vehicle is essential. Make sure your tyres are roadworthy and have sufficient tread. Also, ensure you have a full tank of petrol as well as water and oil. Check your brakes, clutch, battery and wipers. Keep a set of jumper cables for emergencies. It may also be a good idea to keep a small shovel and a bag of cat litter or sand for traction in the boot of your car should you become stuck.
Check weather conditions before you leave: You don’t want to be travelling during a storm or even blizzard. Check the weather reports before you leave and make sure the roads are clear and passable on your route. Let someone know where you are planning to travel and the route you are taking.
Drive safely: Keep a watch out for black ice. If a road looks slick, the chances are, it is. One of the reasons for this is, black ice, a nearly transparent ice that often looks like a harmless puddle or is overlooked entirely. When you need to stop in an emergency avoid sudden braking. Squeeze braking (also known as threshold braking) along with declutching (manual shift) or shifting to neutral (automatic transmission) is the best means of bringing your car to a stop. Icy, snowy conditions are extremely hazardous and you should drive with caution. Do not engage cruise-control in icy areas. Maintain a safe following distance.
Take blankets: Keep a couple of warm blankets in the car. South African motor vehicles are not always well insulated or fitted to deal with extreme cold. Should your car become stuck or stranded, it’s important to keep warm while waiting for assistance.
Dress appropriately: The secret here is layered clothing with an outer layer that is also water and wind resistant. Keep in mind, snow is wet and the chill-factor of the winds can be really biting. Include gloves, hats and scarves as well as warm, sensible shoes and socks. 
Keep prescribed medications with you: Ensure that you always carry your prescribed medications in case of emergencies. 
Have an emergency/disaster kit in the car: As well as an emergency kit with any medical supplies you might need, be sure and remember to pack water, snack bars and food rations. 
Keep a fully charged phone with you: Make sure that you have at least one phone that is fully charged, or keep a car charger handy. It’s important to have some way to communicate or call for help should you or your car become stuck or stranded. 
Courtesy of SnowReport.co.za