DURBAN: Chatsworth mother-of-three was killed on Friday night when a man known to her repeatedly drove over her, knocked down her husband and then fled.
Salma Sheik Haniff, 43, allegedly tried to prevent the man from forcibly leaving home with her daughter in his car when he slammed into her. The 23-year-old suspect then repeatedly drove over Sheik Haniff and dragged her body onto the street with his Toyota RunX. Her husband Afzal Sheik Haniff tried to intervene and he, too, was knocked down and is now fighting for his life in hospital. The suspect was believed to be in a relationship with their daughter. Ramjaan Sheik Haniff, the son of the deceased, said it was gruesome, like something out of a horror movie. “When the incident occurred, we gave chase, but he got away. This man has gotten away with killing my mother and I cannot begin to explain how we feel." He said his father didn’t know his wife had died and became hysterical when told yesterday while recovering in the RK Khan Hospital. He said his father’s livelihood had been destroyed. “My father is a panel beater and the doctor told us he may be paralysed. His legs were crushed, as were his hands,” said the son. The mother taught at a crèche and was loved by the community. Outside her home yesterday, shortly before her funeral, friends and relatives described her as a “wonderful, kind-hearted soul”. “An entire family has been destroyed by one irresponsible young man,” said a relative. Since the incident, pictures and details of the suspect have been circulating on social media. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said police were looking for the suspect. Update! According to the SAPS spokeswoman, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, one suspect aged 23 was arrested by investigators of SAPS Chatsworth, yesterday. The suspect is currently under police guard at a local hospital.  The suspect will appear at the Chatsworth Magistrates Court in due course on alleged charges of murder, attempted murder and reckless and negligent driving. Sunday Tribune