DURBAN - THE Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema caused a stir with his comments that Indian businessmen in KZN exploited black workers by paying them below the minimum wage and with food parcels. 
The Sunday Tribune took to the streets to ask locals in Chatsworth how they felt about his comments.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Locals react to Malema's comments. VIDEO: Ntozinhle Sinqobile/Independent Media Siva Padayachee, 63, African Christian party candidate 
“When Mandela came out of prison he made a name and left the people with hope, what did Malema do when he came here? Is he creating division? Does he want the rainbow nation to be divided?
“Malema wants to create war and we are not prepared for that”. Vasanthie Ruthnam, 50, unemployed
“Indians are paying maids salaries and UIF, they are doing what the government told them to do. They are giving black workers maternity leave and the benefits that they are entitled for. What does Malema want? What is a normal wage for a maid?”
     
Lucia Ntjana, 41, unemployed
“Indians are really underpaying black workers and they prefer foreigners because they don’t complain about salary and workload. They just work because they need to work. They don’t want to hire local people, they hire foreigners because they don’t mind to getting a lower salary, they are really oppressing black people”. Roberto Naicker, 48, businessman
“How can he make a statement like this? He is telling lies. At the end of the day if you are working for a company and the benefits are required, you get all the benefits. Maybe certain companies are not registered or they are fly-by-nights, maybe those companies are underpaying the staff. I have a maid, she gets holiday pay, day-off and my house is her house”. Adam Shaik, 69, pensioner
“It is not true, if the workers are not registered they get underpaid, but if they are registered they get more wages. Those who come from foreign countries work for less money”. Thobile Biyela, 25, unemployed
“What Julius Malema said was true, in our community most young women are working for Indians but only to find out that they only get paid between R40 and 50 a day, especially in factories. When they leave, they don’t get any benefits”. Krishna Singh, 72, pensioner
“I don’t think what he says is true because majority of Africans coming into Chatsworth are working and earn a living, so Malema cannot say that”. * For more reaction on Malema's comments, read the Sunday Tribune's News and Views pages in the print edition on Sunday. SUNDAY TRIBUNE