Story has been updated DURBAN - A shootout between police and hijacking suspects has brought the N2 highway near the River Horse Valley to a halt on Friday. Two suspects have been killed on scene, paramedics report. By 8pm on Friday, police said a third suspect had died after he was discovered wounded in nearby bush.  It is understood that some policemen have been injured, while the suspects have fled into the nearby bush. Police and paramedics are on the scene. Rescue Care Paramedics spokesperson Garrith Jamieson issued an audio recording reporting that their had been a shootout on the highway near the Queen Nandi off ramp. He said there was a shootout and a car accident, with multiple people injured. Listen: It is understood that the suspects had fled into bush.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Police carrying heavy rifles and a dead body on the middle of the highway were seen on the N2. Video: Supplied UPDATE: Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said one suspect is still at large following a dramatic shoot out between armed robbers and the police on the busy N2 freeway earlier today. Police were seen carrying heavy rifles on the N2 highway on Friday midday as the hunt continued. "Police received a tip off that suspects were on their way to commit a robbery. They spotted a suspicious vehicle on the N2 around midday. There were five men in the Mercedes Benz, this car had been hijacked from Reservoir Hills. When the police drove near the car, the men in that vehicle tried to shoot at police, and they also tried to push the police vehicle off the road," said Zwane. The suspect's vehicle collided with the police car and both vehicles rolled. "Police killed two suspects, and one other was arrested. Two suspects ran into the bushes and with the help of a police helicopter a third suspect was arrested," said Zwane. One suspect is still at large. "The police officers had a few bruises from the vehicle collision but are okay now," he said. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY