Major-General Bheki Langa, KwaZulu-Natal acting SAPS provincial commissioner, also applauded the officers for their “extreme bravery” while under fire. The drama - and the subsequent traffic tailbacks - unfolded when police spotted the car along the N2, near Queen Nandi Drive, and a chase ensued. Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane, provincial police spokesperson, said officers received information about a planned robbery and  spotted the car, a white Mercedes-Benz, along the busy highway. “Police tried to stop the car, but the suspects opened fire at the policemen while fleeing. A shoot-out ensued and the suspects pushed the police vehicle off the road. Both the Mercedes and police vehicle veered into oncoming traffic on the southbound lane,” Zwane said. Three members of the syndicate were killed in the shoot-out, while a fourth died in hospital later in the day. A fifth man is in hospital under police guard. “Once released, he is due to be charged with murder, possession of stolen property, possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition,” Zwane added. A search inside the Mercedes revealed four unlicensed guns, ammunition, a police radio and housebreaking implements. The N2 was gridlocked for most of the afternoon, while police combed the scene for evidence. The Mercedes the men were driving was taken during a robbery in Asherville last month. The owner had just driven his brand-new car to his cousin Clive Naicker’s home, when four men stormed the house. Speaking to the Daily News yesterday, Naicker said he had just welcomed his cousins into his home, and seconds later, they were accosted by four balaclava- and glove-clad men. “My two cousins, wife, son and I were told to lie down on the floor. My cousin was assaulted at the back of his head with a gun. The men took the car keys for the Mercedes, a laptop, a television set and cellphones. The men demanded firearms too. They also took my cousin’s wallet. We are truly thankful that everyone complied and remained calm,” he said. Naicker said they were thankful to God that no one was hurt, despite it being a very traumatic experience. He praised the police officers who managed to track down the gang. “These officers put their lives on the line and we appreciate their efforts. They went beyond the call of duty and if they had not stopped these men, other crimes could have been committed,” Naicker said. Zwane added that an officer from the national intervention unit remained in a serious, but stable condition in hospital, while his colleague was recovering at home. Another officer, from the Hawks unit, Viresh Panday, is in hospital. On his Facebook page, Panday thanked his friends and family for their prayers and good wishes. He also apologised for the traffic jam. His post received more than 380 comments, with many wishing him and his fellow police officers a speedy recovery. Commenting on Panday’s post, Shirley Haigh said: “Thank you for putting yourself in harm’s way to protect us all. PS, the traffic jam was not too bad. Only six hours. LOL.” Another comment by Hayley-lynn Strauss read: “So happy you guys are recovering. Don’t worry about the traffic jam as long as you guys are alive that is all that matters. Heal super fast. Respect!” Daily News 