Zikalala was speaking at the close of the party’s two-day Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) lekgotla on Monday at the Coastlands Hotel in South Beach. “As we emerge here, we are clear that tomorrow there will be nothing that will change; South Africa will sleep under President Jacob Zuma, and on Wednesday we will still be led by President Jacob Zuma,” Zikalala said. He said when they go to the party’s national elective conference they would go there still led by Zuma as the state and ANC president. On whether all of the ruling party Members of Parliament would follow the party line at today’s motion of no-confidence, Zikalala said: “This a motion from the opposition; it is not a motion from the ANC, and therefore we don’t expect any member of the ANC to support such a motion.” It was not a motion that should worry the party and they expected all their members to toe the party line. “Whether it’s carried through the secret or open we believe that members of the ANC will have to vote in line with the party direction,” Zikalala said. He said he would not talk about issues that had not happened, when quizzed on what would happen to those who voted against the party directives, but the discipline in the ANC is known and they would all implement the direction of the movement. Zikalala added that branches of the ANC should be allowed to sit down and debate leadership, and the party had convened the branches in May and given them a perspective they endorsed. The election of the party leader would be based on the party’s entrenched traditions, he said, and not based on the fact that an individual was born from a particular family or that a person is related to a particular family. “We elected leaders knowing that their fathers were leaders in the ANC, therefore in the ANC we treat cadres on their own merits and capabilities to lead the revolution, not on the basis of association,” Zikalala said. Those who went around saying Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma must not be elected because she was once married to President Jacob Zuma were making a “very fundamental mistake” as this was a flawed analysis. “We have elected a number of leaders in the organisation without looking at their associations. When we elected president comrade (Thabo) Mbeki we never said this is the son of comrade Govan Mbeki, we just elected comrade Mbeki. “If the determination of branches of the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal will be saying let’s elect Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, we will do so without saying Nkosazana is connected to anyone. We know her in this province as one of those who left this country while she was very young,” he said. He added that as the country celebrated Women’s Month, Dlamini Zuma was one of those women who surrendered their lives and said even if they die they would do so fighting for the liberation of black people. “Today we are questioned by people who never faced any difficulty for this country to be liberated. Today we are told to elect people on the basis of pleasing the capitalists: we will never fall into that trap,” Zikalala said. The ANC remained clear that it would not elect leaders on the basis of pleasing “the enemy of our revolution”. “Once you get supported by the counter-revolution you must ask whether you’re still a cadre in the movement,” Zikalala said. Daily News