DURBAN - Class and racial tensions could mar relations between the Upper Highway communities as disagreements simmer over the operations at Enviroserv's controversial landfill site. In its latest legal bid against EnviroServ, the civil group, the Upper Highway Air (UHA), approached the Durban Equality Court where they accused the waste management company of unfair discrimination and hate speech. This comes hot on the heels of members of the monitoring committee, Vincent Mkhize and his brother Dumisani, allegedly accused UHA and its members of “having mobilised only white community to support an imperialist agenda of outvoting the existing monitoring committee members.” The UHA further accused EnviroServ and its officials, Thabiso Taaka and Makgabo van Niekerk, of instigating, advocating and propagating utterances which labelled UHA members as “white people”, oppressors” and “racists” who prevented Shongweni employees from going to work. Members of the UHA were also allegedly intimidated by EnviroServ’s workers when they attended a criminal case against the company and its executives at the Durban Magistrates Court on August 17. The group was in court on charges related to flouting waste management regulation,which has resulted in the malodour that lingers over the Upper Highway region. After the court proceedings, the EnviroServ contingent gathered outside where they allegedly chanted “down with white people down, down with the oppressors down, down with those who are preventing us from going to work down!”. UHA believed these propagated hatred against whites, interested and affected parties”. These incidents have “had the effect of creating a hostile or intimidating environment, which is related to the race of a portion of the interested and affected community members on whose behalf and in whose interests the complainant (UHA) acts”. Racial tensions started to simmer since June 28 when a monitoring committee meeting turned into a fiery screaming match between more than 300 frustrated residents, after the Mkhize brothers and a group from KwaNdengezi and Shongweni townships complained about the inadequate representation of black people in the committee. “There should be a representative from every area and the way I see it is that black townships have been left out of the committee even though they are affected because they live closest to the landfill,” said Vincent at the time. On Saturday, Taaka confirmed to the Sunday Tribune that they had been served with the court papers. “The legal process has started but we will certainly be opposing them,” he said. On the remedial action on dealing with the odour problem on the site he said everything was on track and 90% of the work had been completed.  Nokuthula.ntuli@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE