DURBAN - DAM levels have dropped by a fraction from 69.5% to 69.1%, a weekly report published by the Department of Water and Sanitation showed this week. South Africa has a water storage of 22 352.8 cubic metres this week. On Thursday, the Inanda Dam in  KwaZulu-Natal had the highest level with 109,6% water, followed by Boegoeberg Dam in Northern Cape at 105,2%. Inanda and Boegoeberg are supplied by Umgeni and Orange rivers respectively. “Despite persistent rains along the coastal belt of KZN, Hazelmere Dam, which receives its supply from Mdloti River is at a disappointing 55,1%,” DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said. The Hazelmere supplies eThekwini and the outlying towns such as Zimbali, Ballito, Tongaat  on the North Coast.  The Driel Barrage north of Durban is bursting at the seams at 102,6%. The province has a subtotal of 82.7% of water stored in dams and reservoirs having dropped from 83.1% last week. Last week’s heavy rains in Western Cape brought some relief to locals as dam levels increased by a percentage from 27.3% to 28.2%, raising water storage in the province to 475,5 cubic metres. Nationally, at 69.1%, the situation of dam levels is better than it was last year which stood at 53.2% at the height of one of the worst droughts the country has faced. “With the rainy season due to start inland in two months, there is hope that dam levels will increase substantially and that the inner parts of the country may be headed for a bumper season,” Ratau said. Free State, North West and Northern Cape have a combined rate of  86,4% of water stored that is stored in their reservoirs and dams. North West alone boasts four dams, Elandskuil, Klipdrift, Potchefstroom and Johan Neser, whose levels is an average 100% each. Limpopo and Mpumalanga have a combined dam level of 72.6%, having dropped slightly from 72.8% last week. Five of Limpopo’s dams, Magoebaskloof, Hans Merensky, Vergelegen, Ramadiepa and Ebenezer had a 100% average each.  nokuthula.ntuli@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE