DURBAN: PEOPLE walking along Durban’s North Beach promenade might at times hear the strains of a saxophone, clarinet or melodica on the breeze. Cue Avesh Ganas.
But this is not your average busker. While he sits in a wheelchair, having had both feet amputated, his is a class act. Smartly turned out in a suit, with hat on head, he cuts a well-groomed figure. The notes he conjures up from his instruments are pure and professional. So impressed was one passer-by that he asked him to entertain at a function in the run-up to his daughter's wedding. Ganas, who lives in Pietermaritzburg, said: “I find such peace and serenity beside the ocean, even though I cannot dip my feet in the sea or walk on the sand. I feel inspired to play.” Asked how he had landed in a wheelchair, he recalled his road accident in 1997, en-route to Joburg. Though the doctors managed to save his legs, by 2011 he was in danger of deep vein thrombosis. A decision was taken to amputate his left foot. In 2015, he lost his right foot. Now out of a job, he turned to his love of music to help him support his family. Having been a member of a band, Ganas is skilled at playing piano, saxophone, clarinet, keyboard, piano-accordion, flute, Indian percussion instruments and the harmonium. He is inspired by local and international artists, especially Deepak Pandit, who plays various instruments but mainly the violin, flute and mandolin. “I am also taking violin lessons from a 70-year-old,” he added. Clearly passionate about music in general, Ganas said: “You have to understand the crux of an instrument, focus on the melody, always be on key, and ‘feel’ the music. Your own mood sets everything for you.” His music is varied: from gospel to songs from the late 1980s, from reggae to country and Indian. He tries to gauge what will attract people walking past. “If a tune doesn't touch me, it won't appeal to others either.” He speaks five languages: English, Afrikaans, Zulu, Hindi and Tamil. “Sometimes you have to sing in a language to understand its poetry.” Ganas’s pillar of strength is his wife, Serika, and he gets much support from his children Luke, 22, Selina, 19, and Tia, 12. The couple enjoy inviting struggling old people in Pietermaritzburg to their home. He entertains, while she cooks. Ganas finds a calling in counselling. “When you’ve had an amputation, you won't have the same experiences you had before. You need the full support of your family. Sadly, this is not possible for some, so I try to uplift them.” Ganas is able to drive a car; but has rigged a special light above the pedals so he can ensure he is pressing the correct one. Before coming to Durban, the couple check the weather. Having to pay petrol and toll money, it is important to consider whether they will recover their costs. SUNDAY TRIBUNE