DURBAN - BEAUTY and brains package Kerusha Kylie Govender is set to charm on TV screens from next month as the new SABC3 Mela presenter. The Durban-born 27-year-old hit the ground running with preparations for the lifestyle magazine show, which included an interview with local fashion guru Gavin Rajah about Fashion Week. Mela, aired on Sundays, delves primarily into cultural, opulence, travel and human interest stories. Buoyed by her new role, Govender said: “It’s so exciting to work with dynamic people. Mela is about culture, the finer things in life, the beating of drums and celebration.” She has a hand in both the entertainment and corporate worlds as a former Miss Mamelodi Sundowns (2012), a finalist in the 2016 Miss South Africa pageant, and a legal consultant. “One of my biggest obstacles was being stuck in the corporate circle,” said Govender. She previously acted as legal adviser to a football club but felt she needed to venture further as an independent legal eagle. “It’s a serious thing to go off on your own. There are financial challenges and it’s tough to find yourself, but its very emancipating,” she said. Now spearheading her own consulting business, Mela was attracted to Govender’s charm after producing an insert on her for their on-the-go career feature. As National Women’s Month draws to a close, Govender admitted much work still needed to be done for women in the workplace. “I worked in a male-dominated industry where I was undermined because I’m a woman, and we face that all the time,” she said. Govender acknowledged legislation around gender equality but called for people’s mentality to follow suit. “Women, especially in the corporate world, have to work 10 times harder just to prove themselves.” Of her journey, she said she had a concrete future career plan but realised the joys of following passion. “So many young girls think that you have to have follow a plan, no matter what, but you can still have options and do more than one thing.” The soon-to-be screen personality advised youths to be teachable by having a learning spirit in every situation. SUNDAY TRIBUNE