DURBAN - A case of murder and defeating the ends of justice has been dropped against eight police officers involved in the death of Lee-Ann Douglas on the N2. The charges were brought to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) by Umkomaas police station commander Colonel PN Govender after his discovery that the police officers involved in the matter had allegedly tried to hide the fact that they had shot at her car. Douglas, 45, was driving from the South Coast towards Durban in 2013 when police allegedly chased her vehicle. It overturned, killing her at the scene. In an exclusive interview with the Daily News, Moses Dlamini, Ipid spokesperson, said despite their investigation and recommendation, the KwaZulu-Natal Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) had declined to prosecute. A report by Ipid which the Daily News has seen, indicates that police statements, alcohol tests and odometer checks revealed that Douglas was drunk and driving at high speeds and recklessly. “Prosecution was declined and an inquest was opened, but still the magistrate who dealt with that also saw no prospects of a successful prosecution. The station commander discovered the attempt to cover up the fact that police had fired at the car. We have statements from all the officers involved. “We have blood tests and proof that the car was driving at a high speed. The matter was referred to the DPP who declined twice to prosecute,” Dlamini said. Eight policemen were involved in the chase and according to the Ipid report, Douglas drove through red robots when police tried to stop her in Port Shepstone. Scottburgh, uMzinto and Umkomaas police were involved in the chase, with one of the police officers firing at the speeding car, causing it to overturn just past Amahlongwa Bridge on the N2. Blood tests showed that the concentration of alcohol in her blood was 0.17g per 100 millilitres. (The legal limit for a blood test is 0.05g per 100 millilitres.) The police vehicles involved in the incident all had their odometers read around the time the chase ensued, and all vehicles clocked between 137km/* and 157km/* . Douglas is said to have almost collided with one of the police vehicles chasing her. “If the police vehicles were travelling at such speeds, what speed was she travelling? According to police statements, Douglas refused to stop when pulled over by the police in Port Shepstone. The situation got out of hand and police from various stations were called in for back-up. “We as Ipid felt that someone must be held responsible for the death, but the DPP declined to prosecute. “This was clearly communicated with the mother, Ms Luckin,” Dlamini said. In his statement to Ipid, Govender said he had called for murder and defeating the ends of justice cases be opened with Ipid. Govender had said the officers involved in the incident had tried to conceal the fact that they had shot at the woman’s vehicle, resulting in it overturning. He said three bullet holes found in the tyres were tampered with. The Ipid report states that Douglas died of multiple blunt force trauma. After the investigation and outcomes, Ipid recommended that Douglas had not posed any threat to the police and that police officers had to use force in proportion to the harm or danger inflicted on them. However, it was discovered that the force used by one officer was excessive and unnecessary. Douglas’ mother Leonie Luckin said it was strange that prosecution would be refused while Ipid found that the police had used excessive force unnecessarily. “I give up. I just want to forget about this because it’s never going to help me. I heard that one officer had been fired after a disciplinary hearing. Why is that if there was no wrong done by the police? “I won’t believe the result on the alcohol test because they would put anything to get themselves off the hook. “On speeding, my daughter would not have been speeding if they had not followed her,” Luckin said. The NPA had not responded at the time of going to press. Daily News