Not only are these women outspoken, but they are talented, funny and they also tweet about things that are relevant to the psyche of the country, feminism and being artists. Add some diversity to your social media timeline and follow these ladies. Rami Chuene - (@ramichuene)  She’s one of South Africa’s triple threats - she sings, acts and writes. Currently starring on e.tv’s Harvest and Mzansi Magic’s The Queen, the actress has paid her dues in the industry and is brilliant at portraying villains. But she’s not only good on TV  - she’s really good on TV, so good that she got cast on The Queen thanks to a Twitter campaign she did. She tweets mostly about TV shows, the industry and other funny anecdotes about her life and the people in it. Portia Gumede - (@portiagumedesa) Writer, producer, actress,  Portia Gumede is one of our top TV creators. But it’s her accessible demeanour on social media that has made her even more popular and a gem to follow. Not only does she make sure she tweets funny anecdotes about the industry, she also throws shade like a founding member of Black Twitter and that, dear reader, is not easy to do. From titbits about her son’s wisecracking comments, to the times she has tweeted about her wig falling off in the presence of a suitor, she’s definitely one of the funniest women on Twitter. Nina Hastie - (@THATninahastie)  Comedian, TV and radio presenter (and sometimes actress), Nina is naturally funny. But she’s also very shady and doesn’t take nonsense from anyone. She gives as good as she gets, while still being funny and nice to those who are pleasant to her.  Pamela Power - {@PamelaPower)  Scriptwriter, editor and author, Pamela Power will get you hooked on some interesting literature from South Africa. She recently published Delilah Now Trending and it’s been well received. Not only witty and talented, she also shares so much about the latest books and book launches of South African authors. So if you are a fan of the written word and want to add more local books to your book shelf, follow Pamela.  Lady $kollie - (@LadySkollie) A visual artist, Lady Skollie (real name Laura Windvogel) is one of Twitter’s gems. She’s outspoken about how feminism is important, tweets loudly about the problematic men in the entertainment industry; how women need to be allowed to own and be proud of their bodies and she also showcases her brilliant artwork. Lady Skollie is a rising star in the art scene and her work is steadily attracting the world’s attention. SUNDAY TRIBUNE