DURBAN - Allegations that more than 1000 cases reported to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) were allegedly “killed off” to boost performance statistics and performance bonuses were being investigated, the police watchdog confirmed. These allegations emerged recently at the Moerane Commission of Inquiry into political killings in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) when Ipid’s Amar Maharaj testified against his own organisation. Apparently, the Ipid’s ethics manager was not the only person to have brought the allegations to the attention of his employers. At the commission, Maharaj claimed that to boost performance statistics and performance bonuses, cases were closed at the instruction of senior management. At the time, Ipid reserved its comment into Maharaj’s testimony, but in an SMSed statement last week, Moses Dlamini, the organisation’s spokesperson, told the Daily News that they were aware of the allegations of “case killing” by some of their members and that an investigation into the matter was under way. “Ipid acknowledges that some of the allegations regarding premature closure of cases were made by Maharaj and others. It must be stated that these are alleged to have occurred during the period when Mr (Robert) McBride and Ipid management were on suspension,” Dlamini said. He said: “The allegations are that these practices occurred during the tenure of the former acting executive director Israel Kgamanyane, for whom the former police minister (Nathi Nhleko) approved a bonus for meeting targets.” Kgamanyane had moved to the Hawks since January, only to leave this month for the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority. Dlamini said McBride had appointed a team in November 2016 to investigate the allegations brought to his attention by Maharaj, the latter refused to provide a statement. He said it would seem that Maharaj wanted to create the impression that he was harassed and victimised by Ipid management without providing any substantiation. Maharaj stood by his testimony, stating that between 2014/15 these irregularities occurred under McBride’s watch, while in 2015/16 these happened under Kgamanyane. Testimony He said after his testimony there were severe restrictions on his mailing system and these were lifted last Monday. “I’ve since submitted a letter of intention to transfer, indicating broken down relationship with Ipid,” he said. The Daily News reported that cases of torture, assault, rape, death in police custody and death as a result of police action were “closed” and “completed” without proper investigation. For the 2015/16 period, Ipid closed 1150 and completed 1490 cases, including those that happened in Glebelands. He said only 59 cases were listed as having been referred to the National Prosecuting Authority. This information, according to Maharaj, was obtained from a principal investigator in Ipid KZN. Dlamini dismissed Maharaj’s testimony. “During his testimony at the commission, Maharaj railed against the entire Ipid management. How is it possible that only Mr Maharaj has the sole correct position on these issues? Ipid will make a presentation before the Moerane Commission on August 28, and it will show that Mr Maharaj’s testimony has no basis in fact. “At best, it is based on ignorance of Ipid investigative processes, at worst, it is made for an ulterior purpose. The allegations he made are laced with inaccuracies,” Dlamini said. He said Kgamanyane had since been transferred to the Hawks by his boss at the time, Nhleko, who had since been deployed to Public Works as minister. McBride did not return phone calls and SMSes, while attempts to get comment from Kgamanyane were unsuccessful. Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi, Hawks spokesperson, said Kgamanyane had left the Hawks last month. Nhleko, through his spokesperson Lesiba Kgwele, said he was unaware of any investigation being conducted by any law enforcement agency since his deployment to his current portfolio. Vanessa Burger, community rights activist, said neither Nhleko nor Kgamanyane had bothered to respond to her requests for urgent investigation into allegations of police brutality. “The Ipid has repeatedly denied all knowledge of these allegations, or claimed that I failed to provide information or evidence. “It is clear is that there has been high-level political interference in all aspects of Glebelands investigations... Ipid, both national and provincial management, has proved to be not only dysfunctional, but also dishonest.” Daily News