DURBAN - THE eThekwini Municipality has set aside a budget of more than R400 million to avail resources to sustain its new Durban central business district clean-up and safety programme. Mayor Zandile Gumede said the budget would support the ongoing initiative which began last week. This includes appointing law enforcement officers, the cutting of verges and cleared illegal posters, illegal dumping and littering. “During my inauguration speech, delivering a safe and clean CBD was one of my top priorities and I am proud to see city officials taking the initiative of reclaiming our spaces,” said the mayor on Wednesday. In the past week, municipal officials maintained law and order in the CBD using city by-laws and acted firmly against illegal businesses and illegal traders. The team also confiscated expired permits, issued spot fines on contraventions and arrested criminals. Acting deputy city manager Phillip Sithole, who oversees the programme, said the budget would also be used in appointing consultants to support the implementation, appointing 200 additional Metro Police officers and employ security personnel to patrol the CBD throughout the day and ensure dedicated legal resources. Sithole said there is also going to be a procurement of 10 patrol vans, eight motorcycles and four unmarked police vehicles with two rapid high power response and CCTV surveillance facilities. To further ensure that the programme is inclusive, eThekwini plans to establish partnerships with residents, the private sector and non-governmental organisation to collectively practise management of waste such as reducing, reusing and recycling. “We are also going to recruit 171 waste management general workers, upgrade public and urban realms, construct dignified trading stalls for informal trade, activate open spaces and ensure constant collection of garbage in hotspots,” he added. Sithole said phase two of the programme includes a plan to reclaim dysfunctional buildings by effecting aggressive enforcement towards illegal land uses and derelict buildings to minimize filth and disorder in the CBD. He added that robust communication with property owners, urging them to take responsibility in maintaining their buildings will commence soon.  nokuthula.ntuli@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE