Durban - After five months of imprisonment for a crime he didn't commit, a 50-year-old Havenside, Chatsworth, father got to spend the weekend with his family. He became a hated man after it was alleged he'd raped his nine-year-old and 15-year-old daughters, but it turned out he was wrongly accused. Charges against him were withdrawn in the Durban Regional Magistrate's Court by senior public prosecutor Val Mellis, on behalf of the State, earlier this week. Due to the nature of the allegations, the man and his family cannot be named. In an exclusive interview with the Sunday Tribune Herald, he recounted the emotional trauma of his family falling apart during his incarceration. He was arrested in March after his daughter told her teacher she was “touched uncomfortably” by her father. Last week, Mellis interviewed the nine-year-old, who denied any rape occurred. On rebuilding family bonds, the father said: “It's going to take a very long time for me to get back to where things were. My head is messed up because surviving jail with a rape charge over your head is not easy.” The father-of-four admitted contemplating suicide while locked in a freezing cell. “I was charged for something I never did. The media and people in the community convicted me and attacked my family,” he said. He said he had forgiven his daughters, who were still being kept in a safe house. “They are children and they make mistakes; I just want to see my family coming together.” The man's attorney, Suren Naidoo, said the outcry on social media when the charges emerged ruined his client's reputation. “We will sue for damages because social media convicted him before the courts could,” said Naidoo. The man's sister thanked those who stood by the family in the hope that justice would prevail and her family's reputation would be restored. “We believe the child was influenced,” she said. Former chief executive of the Aryan Benevolent Home, Rajish Lutchman, who has dealt with child abuse cases, said children could be manipulated. “Children could lie about these situations, but we need to understand why they lied,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE