DURBAN - Addington Hospital, in addition to its problems with its Oncology Unit and broken machines, also faced structural challenges, and it would require more than R100million to fix the problems, a delegation of KwaZulu-Natal members of the provincial legislature (MPLs) were told. The group were on a two-day drive to monitor the functionality of the provincial health care public facilities. Addington and Mahatma Gandhi hospitals were two of the three facilities they visited yesterday. The more than 500-bed Addington Hospital has recently been in the news for its malfunctioning oncology machines and shortage of staff. The latter was pointed out as still a problem by the facility’s chief executive, Dr Mthetheleli Ndlangisa. The facility is now facing a new major crisis, its structural integrity, which is said to be questionable. The fire detection and fighting systems, water and electricity systems as well as the sewer and the heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems are not properly functioning because of the age of the facility. The HVAC system provides thermal comfort and acceptable indoor air quality. Bongi Gcaba, general manager: infrastructure development, KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health, said: “We don’t design buildings like this anymore because these kind of structures are problematic. “If you look at the issue of plumbing, you can fix the problematic part and the problem moves to another weak part of the structure. Tracking faults in this hospital is a big problem. “In the electricity system, for example, you will find a blue wire protruding from the system and when you track the wire, you find a navy and yellow one protruding on the other end. This is the danger of it because you can’t tell where exactly the problem is,” Gcaba said. He said his unit had done a full assessment through Public Works for reticulation of the hospital. Gcaba said it cost the department about R80m to fix the systems in Edendale Hospital in Pieter­maritzburg. “That facility is far smaller than Addington, so reticulation for this facility will not be less than R100m. “We have left this facility to deteriorate, but we are hoping that when Dr Pixley ka Isaka Seme Memorial Hospital is functional, we will be able to remove beds from Addington and start reticulation here. We can’t work on structural faults while we have patients in this facility,” Gcaba said. The new 500-bed regional state facility, north of Durban, is expected to open in 2019. Dr Imran Keeka, DA spokesperson for Health, said the “ailing infrastructure” posed a danger to patients and that the facility should not have been left to its current state. He said he would call for a cost benefit analysis to ascertain whether it was viable to spend about R100m on renovations or to build a new hospital as a long-term solution. Meanwhile, 20 sessional doctors’ contracts at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital will be terminated in December. The hospital’s acting chief executive, Linda Sobekwa, said this was not a cause for concern. “These contracts are terminated in phases and when we do this, we advertise to employ,” Sobekwa said. She has been in charge of the 906 staff complement at the 388-bed facility since July last year. She said the random water cuts by eThekwini was one of the infrastructure concerns, but the facility had reservoirs to carry enough water. Asked if this was because of the non-payment of the water bill, Sobekwa said: “Not at all. It looks like they have a schedule and when we are cut off, we call them and someone is sent to reconnect.” Maggie Govender, chairperson of the delegation, instructed Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) officials who were part of the delegation to deal with the matter. “Institutions like hospitals should not be subjected to water cuts, so Cogta needs to deal with this issue,” she said. Daily News