They described the experience at the department’s Dr Fabian & Florence Ribeiro Treatment Centre, where they had been placed, as horrible. However, the department rubbished these claims, saying some patients had refused treatment and then left. The addicts were involved in the “bluetooth” method - injecting themselves with the blood of another addict to share the high. “Nyaope is what is classified as designer drug because of its makeshift concoction, therefore physical withdrawal symptoms are severe and difficult to manage even medically,” department spokesperson Mbangwa Xaba said. “Equally, when service users arrive at the centre they battle with institutionalised arrangements such as routine, meal times, bathing, exercising etc. “Those who stayed have surpassed physical withdrawal symptoms, feeling better and co-operating with the routine." The addicts who left the centre said they were forced to sleep on the floor in one hall and given one meal a day and unprescribed pills. They claimed they were encouraged to go home. MEC for Social Development Nandi Mayathula-Khoza held a substance abuse awareness campaign on the dangers of abuse in Mabopane and Soshanguve last Wednesday, after which the nyaope addicts volunteered to go to rehab. Itumeleng Kekana told the Pretoria News he had been greatly disappointed with what he thought was a lifetime opportunity. “When I walked on to the bus that was headed to the rehab centre, I went there with the aim of quitting the drug. My parents were happy about the initiative and had high hopes for me,” said Kekana. He said the bad treatment at the centre started as soon as they arrived. “We were referred to as ‘the group from the bus’. When we got there, they put us aside and gave us very little attention.” Kekana said he had been on the drug for more than 10 years. He spent a night at the centre and left. Another addict, Benjamin Lekgoro, said they were never checked for allergies and other illnesses. He said craving for the drug was to be expected as part of the healing process, but he was not prepared for the bad treatment they received. Lekgoro also spent a night at the centre. “We signed a discharge form and were told to make our own means of going home; so we walked all the way,” he said. Their friend,  who refused to be named, disputed their allegations and said there was no bad treatment. “Most of us had been addicted for years and cannot expect to be clean in just one day. There are cravings to deal with and we will require more food than usual. These do not mean bad treatment.” Xaba, meanwhile, dismissed the allegations that also went viral on social media as malicious, unfounded and unfortunate. “The posts reported that the service users were denied a place to sleep, cramped in one room, given incorrect medication and denied food. “The allegations went on to describe an intervention by the MEC to discourage the dangerous ‘bluetooth’ method in Mabopane and Soshanguve as a publicity stunt. These are unfortunate and reckless. “About 250 service users volunteered for treatment at Dr Fabian and Florence Ribeiro. The distance makes it easier for family interaction, which is crucial for rehabilitation process. It was a welcome development that a further 131 brought themselves to the centre for admission, bringing the total admission on that day to 381.” Xaba said this came at huge cost to the department that was already spending about R11000 on each patient. The centre had 200 service users in the centre already and can only take 300 patients. Its capacity was stretched beyond the limit. “The department did all it could to reduce the number to acceptable levels. Arrangements were made to move service users to other centres such Witpoortjie in Ekurhuleni. “This was later reconsidered  as it would impede family participation in the rehabilitation process.” He said that given the medical condition of some patients, those in need of medical treatment were referred to Bronkhorstspruit and Mamelodi hospitals. “By last Thursday, numbers of patients stood at 342 men and 39 women. Another 18 men from the North West were admitted. “Nonetheless our social workers continued working with their families to facilitate aftercare and re-integration.” Xaba added that of those admitted, 206 discharged themselves. “We currently have 130 service users at the centres, all of whom have been allocated social workers from the institution and they have commenced with group sessions.” Pretoria News