Conservationists and activists are against the draft regulations, saying they will be detrimental to the wild animals. Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) proposed regulations say South Africans can trade by obtaining a permit. They also say there would be no restriction. Foreigners, however, would be allowed to export a maximum of two horns “for personal purposes”. The regulations allow for OR Tambo International Airport to be the only point of entry or exit for rhino horn or related products. However, at the 17th Conference of the Parties (CoP17) for the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (Cites) in 2016, hosted in South Africa, a decision not to open international trade was made, which was supported by South Africa. Dr Simon Morgan, trustee of the Wildlife Act Fund, said by trading South Africa was giving the thumbs up to the non-effective consumptive use of a wildlife product. “This is not a product that actually has any real value, it does not sustain a human in any way or keep us warm or sheltered. “Yet, here they are proposing to develop a work-around to this decision by allowing citizens from end-user countries to buy rhino horn in South Africa and then travel with it back to their country of residence. How is this any different from just opening up the international trade?” said Morgan. “The DEA took a firm stance and closed this loophole, so as to not allow rhino horn into Asia to feed the growing demand there. “Now you are proposing to re-establish this? How does that make sense? This makes South Africa appear indecisive and fickle when it comes to our environmental policy.” Morgan Griffiths of the Wildlife and Environmental Society of SA said it was against the trade and the regulations would never work. “Legalising the trade will only create more of a demand for it and this will result in the illegal trade still flourishing due to the demand. We are going to be sending the wrong message to the market.” DEA spokesperson Albie Modise said a moratorium or prohibition was implemented in 2009 as a measure to address the illegal killing of rhino and illegal trade in horn. “This was implemented to enable government to develop and implement compliance, regulatory, monitoring and enforcement mechanisms to ensure domestic trade is well managed and regulated; while illegal activities are prosecuted.” Sunday Tribune  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za 