This will be the order of the day when the SA Revenue Service (Sars) puts a string of goods under the hammer on Wednesday. Perhaps you are bargain-hunting for a car, truck, hotel furniture, home furniture or are running out of toilet rolls, or you have a toddler and want toys. Perhaps you want safety equipment for staff or you are looking for a tractor. Or maybe second-hand clothes? Then you should attend an auction at Cato Creek State Warehouse, New Pier, South Gate Industrial Park in Umbogintwini, Grindrod Edwin Swales, Grindrod Bluff, Grindrod New Pier, South Coast Rossburgh or the MSC depot in Bayhead. Among the cars up for grabs are a Toyota Camry (no key), Mercedes-Benz 200 sedan, Volvo S40 and Mitsubishi Pajero (no key). And if you are thinking of starting a welding business, then you could buy a welding machine. There will also be items such as roof tiles, trailers and new backpacks. New and worn clothes including flip-flops will also be featured. Items like the railway track clips will be auctioned to companies. Wondering where the goods come from? China and the US are two of the main countries. Sars’ Customs facilitates the movement of goods entering and exiting the borders, while the Excise division deals with the levying of duties on certain locally manufactured goods as well as on their imported equivalents. When the imports are found to be in breach of trading law, Sars impounds those goods and later auctions them. All-Auctions will facilitate the sale on behalf of Sars. All-Auctions director Yolande Nel said some of the goods were in the country illegally and the bidders who bought those items would be required to export them immediately after purchase. Some clothing items were part of the goods that were expected to be exported after purchase because they were smuggled into the country. Nel said Sars anticipated making more than R5 million. The gates will open at 8am and the auction will start at 10am. If you are tempted, make sure you have your ID document and proof of residence with you. Nel said the auction was expected to draw people from neighbouring countries as well. Asked what triggered this huge sale, Nel said Sars wanted to clear its warehouses because they were filled to capacity with no space left for further impounds. Her parting shot was, “you snooze, you lose”.  lungani.zungu@inl.co.za  Sunday Tribune