Johannesburg – Spur has apologised to the woman, Lebohang Mabuya, who was involved in a spat with a male patron at a restaurant on Sunday after reviewing CCTV footage of the incident. A video depicting the incident showed an aggressive white male threaten Mabuya with children around the table, with the woman standing up to the man and firing back with expletives. The confrontation had been captured on camera and shared on social media, going viral. In a statement on Wednesday afternoon, Spur said they had revisited CCTV footage from the Texamo Spur at The Glen Shopping Centre in Johannesburg. “We have reviewed our CCTV footage of the incident and can confirm that Ms Mabuya’s version of events is accurate; the footage shows that her child was grabbed by the male customer in an aggressive manner and his actions are unacceptable. “We affirm our decision to ban the male customer from our stores, physical aggression towards our customers, particularly against women and children will not be tolerated,” Spur said in a statement. The restaurant had faced criticism from social media users who slated the inaction of the employees. Spur has acknowledge this and will be reviewing it’s internal procedures: “We acknowledge that the staff and management of the store did not sufficiently assist Ms Mabuya. We have addressed this with the store management and we are reviewing our internal procedures to ensure that restaurant staff are better equipped to manage an incident such as this. We also recognise that Ms Mabuya apologised in recent media statements for her inappropriate language used in this incident”. Spur's chief executive Pierre van Tonder said they would be reaching out to talk directly with Mabuya. “We will also offer her and her family trauma counselling and any other support where we can. I would like to again make it very clear that as an organisation we do not condone any forms of violence against women or children, irrespective of the circumstances. “As an organisation we have learnt a valuable lesson and it is my priority at this stage to ensure that should something like happen again, our staff will be sufficiently prepared,” said van Tonder. Follow @SundayTribuneSA Sunday Tribune