Johannesburg - The linen is crisp and glamorous and the furniture refined, like Dr Reza Mia’s clients. No nip and tuck required – just jacket and tie at this elegant home. Aesthetic doctor, navigational expert, cat lover and fitness fan, Mia is an enigmatic and aspirational young man who lives in an equally fascinating home. One of South Africa's best-known aesthetic specialists and darling of the Joburg youth-seeking set, 33-year-old Mia lives with his parents and sister's family in his parents’ home on Linksfield Ridge. The opulent mansion with sweeping views of the city was renovated over three years after the family acquired neighbouring properties. It has been in the family for many years and the occupants have included a number of pets, most of which Mia has “rescued”. The stunning home has security personnel living on the property and an underground parking garage for the various family members. The main house sits in the centre of the property above rolling green lawns, and behind it is a lavish entertainer’s pavilion and personal gym with all the latest equipment. The underground car park has lift access to the living areas. A marble and granite staircase leads to the hallway and a large entertainment pavilion was built on top of the ridge, complete with private gym. Mia grew up in Lenasia and attended Sacred Heart College and then Dainfern College before studying medicine at Wits University. He says he has always had an innate appreciation of beauty and was drawn toward aesthetic therapy after he graduated. He created a niche for himself becoming Joburg’s foremost expert on non-invasive treatment. “I don’t think everyone can do what I do – we have a unique approach where we treat each client individually and offer an integrated, all-round treatment for anti-ageing. It can be studied, but you need to have a feel for beauty,” he says. His business, Anti-Aging Art, is based in Houghton. Here he hosts a stream of South African celebrities and professionals looking for his light touch and great eye for a more youthful, vibrant appearance. “It’s pointless chasing problems with Botox – there are other ways and no two patients are the same,” says Mia. His solution to a more youthful appearance includes diet, exercise and vitamin advice. He says the demand for fillers and Botox mushroomed over the years after first importing aesthetic creams. However, a range of treatments are now used to get “a natural look that is healthy and doesn’t look ‘done’ ”. Carmen Constantinides, his girlfriend, helps with administration. Mia is one of four siblings and has assisted his brother Ridwan, who is a doctor, in the operating theatre on a few occasions. He also works with Ridwan and the Smile Foundation in helping children with facial disfigurements receive medical treatment. Back in the family home, gold and champagne colours mingle beautifully with colourful Persian carpets and marble flooring. Mia says he had a hand in the decorating, choosing the gold-washed cornicing and marble-style paint effects for the six bedrooms and three living areas. The generous living room is filled with deep, comfortable couches that have the signature gold accents. Side tables have carved legs and a large fireplace welcomes guests. The dining area can seat 20 and like the lounge, has views across the garden. It has opulent mirrors that double the space. His bedroom on the third floor has a large desk from where he can finish off work in the evenings and continue his studies. The bedrooms all have en-suite bathrooms. “I have a masters in finance, an MBA from Liverpool University and I just love to keep learning. I read a lot and take courses whenever I can.” A passion for aeronautical engineering spurred him on to begin designing an aeroplane. “My plane takes off like a helicopter, but flies like a jet; it works off fans,” he says. Constantinides says Mia is constantly on the go, often cajoling her into the gym on Sundays. Some time out is spent in the dedicated cinema room on the ground floor, but the couple love spending time with the cats – Tigger and Sparkles from Kitty Haven.  * The Independent Property is available every week in the Saturday edition of the Weekend Argus Independent Property                               