Durban - The official opposition party, the DA, held its alternative State of the Province address , delivered by Francois Rodgers, leader in the provincial legislature in KwaZulu-Natal, after the State of the Province address this week. His address was titled DA s Rescue Plan for KZN . These are some of the points the official and the alternative addresses outlined. Mchunu: * Land issues in our province remain a highly emotive issue and is again an area deserving heightened attention and a more radical approach to meet the desired outcomes* It is imperative to embark upon a process of radical economic transformation as a drive to address the persevering triple challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality. * The issue of identity remains core to a society that is united. This then understandably raises the question as to what is our identity as a South African nation and as KwaZulu-Natalians. We can never be united if we remain divided along lines of race, colour, language, religion, or any other issue. * More needs to be done to alter and accelerate economic growth in KZN, so as to boost demand from the labour-intensive sectors, to protect existing employment and to create new and quality jobs. This is critical, to ensure that progress that has been made in KZN in reducing poverty is not rapidly eroded and reversed. Rodgers * Our address, which includes the DA s Rescue Plan For KZN comes as the people of our province cry out for a government that puts them first. It comes as they can no longer rely on the ANC to present them with a State of the Province address that brings real hope rather than tired rhetoric. * The shift in politics means that the DA will no longer follow an ANC set agenda that has no direction, no purpose and no tangible result for its people. Instead, we will set the agenda, providing workable solutions to the many issues that continue to plague KZN communities. * The DA has worked tirelessly as an opposition party, in line with the constitution, to ensure that government is held to account, that promises are delivered on, and that the rule of law is respected. We are proud of the work we and our colleagues before us have done in building a vibrant legislature in KwaZulu-Natal and of the role we are playing in keeping ANC abuse in check. * But we still need to do much more. And for this to happen, we have to make the big leap from being an opposition party to a government in waiting party. * Our plan also focuses on the portfolios identified as key drivers for change in the province health, education, economic development, social development, agriculture and transport. It also introduces immediate changes in terms of the Premier s Office in order to promote a capable state in our province. * With an overall focus on skills for jobs and economic growth, the DA s Rescue Plan for KZN will grow the economy and create jobs, providing opportunity regardless of political affiliation and ensuring access to affordable and sustainable services in all government departments.Sunday Tribune