DURBAN: A “messenger from God”, who was in Durban the past week, prophesied better days ahead for South Africa in the next 10 years.
The presiding apostle of Isaac (International Strategic Alliance of Apostolic Churches), Jonathan David, believes good things will take place in South Africa, including improved social cohesion and an end to corruption among leaders. The Malaysia-based pastor has been addressing large audiences during the KwaZulu-Natal leg of the Isaac leadership’s visit to South Africa. Isaac is a company of senior ministers and missionaries who have an alliance with David as their primary source of governance over their lives, ministry and churches. Pastors from across the country and Africa, corporate leaders and politicians attended the first of several sessions at Sastri College in Durban last week, which was opened by deputy mayor Fawzia Peer. David told congregants: “A new day is dawning for a new South Africa to arise.” For more than 20 years, David, who is believed by his followers to have a spiritual link to the divine, has been mentoring pastors and leaders through the Isaac network. He prophesied that in the next decade, corruption among the nation’s leaders would be exposed and social cohesion would improve. He said: “From underneath His feet is emerging a generation of men and women who are the true Rainbow Nation as faces without races.” KZN pastors and Isaac affiliates, Raj Chetty and Shailen Singh, described David as a prophet and affirmed their belief in his wisdom. Chetty said David had arrived in South Africa in his capacity as a messenger of God to discuss how to resolve the nation’s problems. “It’s a crucial time, looking at the economic and racial situation, and Pastor David discusses the transformation needed," said Chetty. "It’s about people, not things.” Singh stressed the importance of the church being visible and vocal. “The message is that we need to come out and get involved in society and the community. We can’t only be visible during the Sunday service; rather, we must be consistently active.” While David believed opportunities would emerge for the country in the near future, political analyst Daniel Silke disagreed. Silke said there was no possibility of a “quick fix” or of transformation taking place quickly. “The political realm will remain messy and policy will be paralysed," he said. "We are likely to see little change in our fortunes as we will be in a substantial state of flux until the end of the year and even until the next elections.” The KZN leg of the conference ends with a celebration at the Sastri College on Sunday and David will then go to Joburg to share his views there. SUNDAY TRIBUNE