He made the call during his annual Reed Celebration speech at Enyokeni in Nongoma. He said if politicians could probe the killings of other politicians, they should probe those of ordinary people too. He was referring to the Moerane Commission which is probing political deaths in KwaZulu-Natal and the violence at the Glebelands Hostel. More than 90 people have been killed. “I’m concerned about the high rate of murders in this country, and it’s not about the killings of the politicians which we see has resulted in the formation of a commission. Are other lives not important? That’s nonsense” “All lives matter. If there is a commission on the killings of politicians then there should be one on the killing of women and children as well. We must also see a formation on the killings of people with albinism. “From what I’ve witnessed there is no commission of inquiry that can stop the killings. There is one in Glebelands, but people are still being murdered,” he said. It hurt him deeply that ordinary people were losing their lives while those in power walked with bodyguards, he added. “I plead with all our people to put their weapons down and stop this senseless violence because politicians are not the ones to stop this, it’s up to you,” he said. The king also took aim at the SABC. He said Ukhozi FM was contributing to killing the Zulu language. The SABC took a decision to change Radio Zulu to Ukhozi FM at the advent of democracy. In isiZulu, Ukhozi is an eagle. He rebuked: “What did we do to make them chose to name the radio station after a bird?” He urged the 15 000 maidens who had descended on Enyokeni to be careful of paedophiles. This as the celebration has suffered criticism from those who believed the event exposed the maidens. “I know most of you are on social media and you post everything that happens here, including pictures, but be cautious of people who want to use our beautiful culture to achieve disgraceful means. “Some will come here and ask to take pictures of you then sell them to be used in the most despicable ways,” cautioned the king. He told the maidens they were the hope of the Zulu nation. He expected them to do well academically so they could have careers in fields that changed the future of the country and the world. “You will also raise the next generation of Zulu heroes, doctors, nurses and other professionals But please don’t be tempted to fall into the trap of having kids while you are children yourselves just so you could access the government child support grant.” Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi said the announcement by government that it would soon make condoms available at schools 
went against what King Zwelithini had been campaigning for, 
which was to raise youth that respected themselves and their bodies enough to wait until they were married before engaging in sexual activities. SUNDAY TRIBUNE