DURBAN: When a choir rendition of Amazing Grace echoed through the chapel at Michaelhouse on Friday, loved ones of Themba Dloti wiped away their tears to mourn his death.
Themba, 16, was the only fatality while 47 others were injured, when a tyre of the bus the school hired burst and caused it to overturn. The boys were on their way to Kearsney College for a soccer match. The accident happened on the N3 near Pietermaritzburg. Nine schoolboys and a teacher were still in various hospitals in the Midlands. The chapel at the prestigious Midlands private school overflowed with hundreds of Michaelhouse boys, their parents and public, who converged to honour Themba, who was known as “Big T” to friends. His father called for Themba’s legacy to remain strong. He said the youngster had strong opinions and stood for what he believed in. “Coming to Michaelhouse was a big deal for him,” said an emotional Dloti. “The best way to remember Themba is to talk about the things he loved.” One of these was Michaelhouse, he said, referring to it as Themba’s extended family. Reminiscing on his son’s life, Dloti said: “He would charm his way into the hearts of all with his warm smile and his energy.” Some sat in the school quadrangle, and others in a separate prayer hall where a live-stream of the memorial was projected. The Dloti family was surrounded by those offering condolences, while in the school quadrangle Michaelhouse boys, and girls from various neighbouring schools, stood in a circle and held each other while sombrely singing the national anthem, Nkosi Sikelel. One of Themba’s teammates, who was at the memorial, told the Sunday Tribune: “It happened in five seconds,” he said referring to the accident. He said they were sitting in the bus chatting with teammates when the accident suddenly happened. He escaped with minor injuries. A lot of the schoolboys were in a sombre mood, with many crying during and after the memorial service. Themba’s uncle, Kabelo Dloti, told the Sunday Tribune that Themba had an ability to connect with people. “We have a large family, but he always found a moment to connect with you,” he said. Kabelo, however, said to prevent social media breaking the news to some family members, many were alerted by phone. “The news spread within a split second. I had to tell my wife what had happened over the phone because I knew what would happen if I didn’t tell her immediately,” he said. “There are still many questions about what happened and how it happened but we are not at the stage where we can get formal answers, now we are still trying to deal with the reality of a burial,” he said. Themba will be buried in Midrand on Tuesday, where a wall of remembrance will be erected at the funeral to share the messages of support to the family on Themba’s passing. Michaelhouse rector, Greg Theron, said the boys are still emotionally recovering and have relied on their strong brotherhood. “The magnitude of the accident has affected them and they’re also upset over what might have been,” he said. In a statement, Maharaj’s Coaches, the Pietermaritzburg-based bus service which was ferrying the boys to Hillcrest, said the accident was the first of its kind in its long association with schools in the Midlands. “The vehicle was well maintained and the driver highly experienced,” the statement read. SUNDAY TRIBUNE