Durban: CONTROVERSY surrounds the auctioning of a painting of Mahatma Gandhi for R35 000 at a fundraiser as the artist claims it was “stolen” from him.
Artist Ashley Moonsamy, a lecturer at Thekwini College, says the painting was taken to an art store in 2013 to be framed by Prethevie Mohanlall. Mohanlall, who owned Nico’s Art and Frames in the Durban CBD, which is now based at the Stables Lifestyle Market, allegedly told Moonsamy that the painting had been stolen by one of his employees. However, Moonsamy was shocked when he discovered recently that the painting was auctioned at a Shotokan Karate International South Africa (Skisa) 50th anniversary fundraising event at the Durban University of Technology’s Ritson Campus last week. He made enquiries into its sale and has opened a charge of theft against Mohanlall. “I had taken two original paintings to him in 2013 to be framed. One was of Jacob Zuma and the other, Gandhi. I was a former client of his and left the paintings in his possession to be framed,” said Moonsamy. Several attempts to get the framed painting back were made, but to no avail. On not hearing anything about his painting being framed and ready for collection, he made several attempts to get it back from the store. “I went into the store and asked for the painting multiple times but excuses were always given. On most occasions, Mohanlall was never present. Eventually, the store closed and moved to the Stables. I tracked down Mohanlall and he said he was willing to pay me R3 000 for the painting as it was stolen from him by an employee. I did not budge as this upset me.” Sonny Pillay of Skisa confirmed that the painting had been bought from Nico’s in 2013. He said it was purchased on behalf of the Skisa Trust which had been a long-standing client of Nico’s. “I’m baffled by the claim. We legitimately purchased the painting using the Skisa Trust for R4 650 at the time. This was the second time we had auctioned it. The first time, there was a problem with the bidder’s payment,” said a shocked Pillay. The Sunday Tribune has also seen the bank statements reflecting the payment to Nico’s. Mohanlall, when contacted, gave two different versions. In an initial conversation with the Sunday Tribune, he claimed the painting had been stolen by an employee who had requested to take the painting to be viewed by a potential buyer. “The employee, who I only knew as Joseph, then took off with the painting and never returned. I couldn’t open a case against him because I didn’t have his full details,” said Mohanlall. When the Sunday Tribune returned to Mohanlall for comment after Skisa had confirmed that it had purchased the painting, Mohanlall said he was “confused”. He claimed he had mixed up the facts. “I am not denying that Skisa could have bought the painting. But I sometimes have more than one Gandhi painting and maybe at the time, my employee stole the other Gandhi painting which I had mistaken for Moonsamy’s painting. I did offer to pay him something for the stolen painting which I thought was his, but he refused my offer,” he said. Mohanlall said he was aware that a criminal charge had been laid against him and that he had also advised Moonsamy to open the charge if he felt that he had stolen his painting. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed a case of theft. “We can confirm that a case of theft was opened at Durban Central police station after a painting was stolen. The matter is still under investigation.”  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE