Durban - It’s all about understated elegance that makes a bold statement. That's the philosophy of local designer, Muzi Mlambo, who trained as a sangoma before turning to a career in fashion. With no formal fashion design training, Mlambo took the title as Emerging Designer of the Year at the gala awards ceremony at the Durban Fashion Fair showcase last weekend. The Independent on Saturday visited Mlambo at his studio on Yusuf Dadoo Street this week, which he described as “tiny, but this is where the magic happens”. His journey into the heart of fashion started when he was young and used to watch his mother sewing at home. “She was a dressmaker and a machinist. When I was small, I would sit next to her at the sewing machine. I would admire what she was doing, and I fell in love with sewing,” he said, When he was in Grade 10, his mother gave him a few lessons. “After finishing matric, there was no money for tertiary education and I knew I had to do what I knew – which was sewing. My talent was raw and I did not know the kind of designer I wanted to be, so it has taken years of work. I think it would have been easier if I had been able to get some formal training,” he said. But those years of honing his design skills on his own finally paid off when he was introduced to local designer Zama Mathe of Zarth label, who became his mentor. Having also trained as a sangoma, Mlambo spent a number of years questioning his ­­direction in life. “I am a spiritual person. Being a sangoma is a calling; it’s not just about giving medicine, but the skills I learned I now also apply to my design business. I still do the rituals, go back to my ancestors and say thank you. It is only the ancestors who have made everything possible, and so I know now that I am on the right path,” he said. His label, Mita-N Dzyns, is named after his late grandmother, Mita Ntombela, who had a profound effect on his life. “We all loved her so much, she was such a pillar of strength and worked so hard at looking after everyone when we were growing up. Sometimes there would be 20 kids in her home at one time,” he said. Taking his gogo’s legacy forward, Mlambo’s trademark style favours a striking elegance combined with strength. “A woman must be able to make a statement, but she must not be trying too hard to look good. She must be understated, a combination of elegance and power,” he said. “I am in love with all shades of grey, from dark charcoal to light. It doesn’t have to be full length, and for the season ahead, I would say the Victorian length is perfect.” The Independent on Saturday