Emma Durden, Twist co-ordinator says that Twist is set on re-inspiring groups that may have lost faith that their work could have an impact and travel beyond their own communities. “It’s opening doors for new collaborations and creating opportunities for those who are willing to put in the time that it takes to create artistically strong work and to put in the effort to organise and administer their groups effectively. Projects like the Fresha Festival create opportunities for people to see good quality theatre for free and in unexpected places. This helps to build audiences for theatre and other performance forms, and encourages a culture of arts appreciation,” she said. Every two years, Twist takes in four groups for an 18-month programme that takes them through a development process. At the end Twist publishes a compilation of scripts with every intake of groups once they have gone through the development process and created new works with  different theatre professionals and on their own. “This year saw the fourth compilation that we have published in English and Zulu. There are 14 scripts in the book - covering a range of topics that inspired or concerned the individual groups. They include a show on witchcraft and zombies, one about a grandfather who loves birds more than people, one on lesbian relationships, and one about a rabbit who goes to the city for the first time.  Each story is different and the plays themselves cover a range of styles and genres. The book is made available to community theatre groups, students and educational institutions,” she said. Twist also recently awarded theatre-maker, director and script-writer, Xolani Dlongolo, with a Game Changer Award- the first of its kind at the DUT Courtyard Theatre. Durden said the reason for having such an award, is to recognise people who made a marked difference in community theatre. Dlongolo was awarded a specially created hand carved soapstone trophy. “There are so many unsung heroes who are making a difference to theatre in the province.  They are changing the way that theatre is made, watched and thought about.  We wanted to find a way to recognize these people. Xolani constantly gives of his time to young and emerging theatre groups, assisting them both artistically and administratively, and giving guidance in organising and registering themselves.  He has worked as a writer, director and stage manager around South Africa, Swaziland and the Netherlands. Although Xolani has never had formal arts training -  he shares his knowledge built over more than fifteen years in the industry with all he comes into contact with. He is one of the unsung heroes of theatre.  He is also currently working on a performance that explores the idea of justice and taking punishment into your own hands that is travelling to the National Arts Festival in July,” said Durden.