MERVYN NAIDOO AFTER enduring three tense weeks with little sleep, Athma and Kanchan Maharaj of Redhill, Durban, are now enjoying restful nights. Their son Keshav was in New Zealand playing Test cricket for the Proteas during that time, and his doting parents caught every ball bowled in the three-match series on TV. The 11-hour time difference between New Zealand and South Africa meant changed sleeping patterns for the spin bowler’s parents. As the series ebbed and flowed with runs, wickets and rain, the Maharaj's remained committed to their cause of taking in all the action. Their taxing vigil meant one of them had to be posted in front of the tellyTV during play, but when Keshav was bowling or batting they were both there, shouting and cheering. By the time play ended each day they, both teachers, had just enough time to freshen up and head off to work. “It was a challenge, but it was worth the effort,” confirmed Athma. Athma and his wife have always been staunch supporters of their son’s cricketing endeavours, which date back to the days when he wore his whites for school matches. Keshav’s talent eventually earned him a contract with the Dolphins. Athma has archived all his 27-year-old son’s playing statistics, from schoolboy days to the present, and said he would take great pleasure in documenting Keshav’s play in New Zealand. Not only did the Proteas win the tightly-contested series 1-0, but Keshav confirmed his status as the team’s premier spin bowler with some outstanding individual performances during the tour. He grabbed his best wicket haul (5/94) as a Protea in the first Test, played in Dunedin, and surpassed that effort in the next match in Wellington with a career-best performance of 6/40 in New Zealand’s second innings. That spell of bowling won the Test, and ultimately the series, and Keshav was named man of the match for his effort. for his effort. He finished the tour as the Proteas’ leading bowler with a total of 15 wickets. “We’re really proud of what our son has achieved. He’s worked hard over the years to make the Proteas team. “Every wicket he takes and run he scores improves his player profile. The tour would have been a great confidence booster for him and the man of the match performance was a real feather in his cap,” said Athma. Keshav made an impressive debut with the Proteas team that toured and beat hosts Australia 2-1 in a series of matches played in November. Athma confirmed that his son’s recent exploits on the cricket field had greatly increased his popularity. “It hasn’t changed him, Keshav is happy to engage with the fans.” And about the interest in the unmarried Keshav is now getting from female fans, Athma said: “He talks only to his mum about that.” Keshav returned home on Friday.