Johannesburg – Disgruntled former SABC head of corporate affairs Hlaudi Motsoeneng was greeted with songs, praises and dance from his loyal supporters who defended his decision to implement a 90% local content quota at the SABC. The group consisted mainly of musicians who called on Motsoeneng to return to the SABC. At the media briefing, Motsoeneng was expected to address a number of issues including the 90% local content quota.    Motsoeneng explained that he was not representing the SABC and he backed the content quota.       According to Motsoeneng, artists are workers and need to be paid accordingly. He lashed out at Krish Naidoo, calling him a sell-out.       Motsoeneng then spoke about the SABC8, saying they should have 'balanced reporting'.       Last year, the Western Cape High Court ruled in favour of the DA and finding that the appointment of Motsoeneng as SABC’s group executive of corporate affairs was unlawful and irrational. The court held that Motsoeneng should not hold any position at the public broadcaster until a disciplinary is held to assert the remedial action issues by the public protector. The court also ordered that the new interim board should deliver a letter setting out the disciplinary charges against Motsoeneng.   At the briefing on Wednesday, held at Milpark in Johannesburg, supporters each took to the podium to air their views and lashed out at the new interim board warning them not changes the 90% policy instituted by Motsoeneng. Musician Blodie Makhene warned the SABC board not “play games with artists” and warned that the should account to them. Another group representing young artists called for the SABC board to go. Parliament’s Ad Hoc Committee on Communication was also not spared, supporters criticized it for conducting the inquiry into the SABC with preconceived ideas about Motsoeneng. The SABC has been facing a number constraints over the past couple of years, with rumours that some producers have not been paid this month. @ZintleMahlati Politics and Development Hub and IOL