DURBAN: A TOP Bollywood playback artist was forced to shave his head to keep bounty hunters at bay because of the 10 000 rupee (R2 200) fatwa that hung over his head as a result of a controversial tweet. Sonu Nigam was on the receiving end of a worldwide backlash on social media after he used Twitter to voice his displeasure at being woken by a morning Azaan (Islamic call to prayer).The 43-year-old Kal Ho Naa Ho singer described the use of loudspeakers for the prayer call as “forced religion”.He then sent a series of tweets to explain why he believed loudspeakers should not be allowed at any place of worship as it disturbed those who didn’t follow that faith.That only served to spark a tsunami of reactionoutrage to the singer’s posts, including from South Africans who used mainly Facebook to make known their feelings.Said Sandra Baliram said: “I don’t think that it was an appropriate comment. We have to be tolerant of all religions.”Ahmedy Wadee posted: “What an idiot. Because he has a voice makes him someone important, forgetting his roots.”Said Feroza Ebrahim: “The level of intolerance just blows my mind!”Sajeeda Imdad: “No longer his fan. He wants us to stop an essential part of our religion because his sleep is being disturbed.”Jewan Ramsamooch: “It only takes a few minutes of your time to respect other religions.”Shaista Khan: “Every religion should be respected and not compromised for anyone”.Some were more understanding.Talia Giridhari: “Sonu Nigam, you are not just extremely talented, you are also very brave and truthful.”Shiven Dhabideen: “With due respect to your religion, every person has a right to be opinionated.”Ruby Wagle posted: “Sonu Nigam has made a valid point on what he has experienced. India is a democratic country and the people are free to speak their minds.”Amith Prahalath: “Touchy subject. I think all other times are fine, but the 4am one could be looked at.”Atish Ramachul: "Every culture needs to maintain their roots, but at least consider modern culture.”An Indian Muslim cleric joined the fray, issuing a fatwa (a ruling on a point of Islamic law given by a recognised authority).The cleric announced that a 10 000 rupee reward would be paid to anyone who shaved off Nigam’s hair and "garlanded" him with old shoes.Nigam’s public relations machine kicked into a gear, calling a press conference to put out the raging fires of disapproval.The artist, who performed in South Africa recently, told the media in India that his comments on Twitter were taken out of context.“Everybody has the right to their opinion, including me, and it should not be misconstrued. Whether it’s a temple or a mosque, a loudspeaker is not of religious necessity and cannot be part of historical tradition,” he said. The South African Muslim Network chairperson, Dr Faisal Suliman, called for tolerance and mutual respect.“It’s important for people like Sonu Nigam, who are in positions of influence, to be very circumspect in their postings. He should have rather approached that specific mosque to resolve the issue.Suliman believes that balance is important.“Having said that, the purpose of the Azaan is to call Muslims to prayer, but it should not, in a diverse community, be so loud that it disturbs people of other faith groups. We all need to respect each other.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE