A POPULAR DA councillor had his membership terminated recently after the party conducted a disciplinary hearing and found that he had breached its code of conduct.  It was alleged that former Ward 70 Councillor in Chatsworth, Ismail Cassimjee, had taken R5 000 from a member of the public and failed to repay the money. The complainant, a Bangladeshi national, sought Cassimjee’s assistance with an identification document that needed to be processed in Pretoria. Cassimjee needed the money for food, travel and other expenses he incurred for the Pretoria trip.  The Bangladeshi man lodged a formal complaint with the DA last year about the money Cassimjee owed him. Cassimjee claimed that being subjected to a disciplinary hearing was a plot hatched by a certain faction within the DA to have him ousted from the party. “It was a private matter between me and the complainant, and I had paid back the money to him before the disciplinary hearing, but the DA went ahead with the case.  “The hearing related to a vendetta that some people in the DA had against me,” he claimed. Cassimjee, a former Minority Front caucus chairman and Ward 70 councillor, joined the DA in October 2013. He won the subsequent by-election for the ward after his move to the DA.  Cassimjee was then moved to Ward 17 before last year’s local government elections. But Haniff Hoosen, the chairman of the DA in KwaZulu-Natal, said redeploying Cassimjee was a political move and there was nothing sinister about it. “The hearing happened after the elections (November 7) and moving councillors to different wards is normal practice in the DA.”  Hoosen said the DA investigated and later constituted a hearing after receiving a written complaint from the Bangladeshi man. “We had an in-depth disciplinary committee hearing because this was not a minor matter, and we gave Cassimjee the opportunity to present his defence. “In February we decided to cancel his membership,” said Hoosen.  He said Cassimjee was an excellent member who was hard-working and committed, but he had to be held accountable for his actions. “Any allegation against a DA member is always investigated thoroughly because we don’t want to give opposition parties any loopholes," he said. “We simply cannot tolerate that sort of behaviour from a public representative. We expect our representatives to act in an exemplary manner and hold them to a high level of accountability. “He had the right to appeal the decision but chose not to.” Cassimjee said he considered appealing but decided against it because he realised there was a plot afoot to discredit him.  He also insisted that his membership was not terminated, but that he had resigned for personal reasons. “I spoke to Zwakele Mncwango, the DA’s leader in KZN, about my resignation in January and he persuaded me to stay but eventually accepted my decision. “If my membership was terminated, then Mncwango would not have accepted my resignation,” Cassimjee reasoned. “Perhaps I should not have taken the money – it was for food and travel expenses – but I paid it back. “The complainant and I are close friends. He issued a letter of withdrawal before the hearing because I had repaid him. “The DA even tried to provide transport for him to attend the hearing, but he refused. So the matter should have been put to rest," said Cassimjee. “At the hearing they told me I had not brought the party into disrepute, but I had contravened their code of conduct by taking the money.”  SUNDAY TRIBUNE