One can only imagine that this is what Durban-based sweet company Beacon had in mind when it started the Let The Hunt Begin competition where Easter-egg-eaters win a prize if they find a golden egg or bunny sticker inside the wrapper of a marshmallow egg. But, after 10 years of quaffing eggs and peeling off stickers, people are wondering who ever won? “Has anyone ever seen any of the winners of that R1-million that Beacon supposedly has as a prize every year,” Venetia Paulse asked on Facebook. “So, seriously, in all the years of the Beacon marshmallow egg hunt, has anyone ever actually won? Or do you know someone who has? Very curious because honestly I believe it is a scam,” Jeanine Courtois added. Newkid SA wrote: “I’ve been eating Beacon Easter eggs for the past 10 years, found countless golden eggs but never won... is this a scam?” Tiger Brands, the holding company which owns Beacon, says prizes have been given away, but this year was the first time there would be a R1-million cash grand prize. In the past Beacon gave away prizes to the value of R1m, said Tiger Brands spokeswoman Nevashnee Naicker . The R1m cash grand prize draw will take place on April 24. “When a consumer finds the bunny or the golden egg sticker, he or she must dial the USSD number followed by the unique code for a chance to enter to win in the draw,” she said. Bunny stickers allow the consumer to enter the daily draw to win a cash prize of R5 000, while the golden sticker gives a person the chance to win the grand prize. “The winner will be chosen by random selection, using a computer generated algorithm. One entry equals one chance in the draw.” Naicker said a promotional agency would inform participants who won. Daily winners were also advertised on Beacon’s “Let The Hunt Begin” Facebook page as well as on beaconbunny.co.za Last year there were 2.5 million entries. This year more than 1.5 million people have already entered. As the Easter bunny gets busy this morning, look out for a golden egg or lucky bunny sticker. It might not lead to the adventure Willy Wonka promised, but it could leave you a whole lot richer. Sunday Tribune