Durban - The State's appeal against the decision of the Gauteng High Court, Pretoria, to release SACP leader Chris Hani’s murderer, Janusz Walus, on parole is set to be heard in the Supreme Court of Appeal next month. Walus’s lawyer, Julian Knight, confirmed argument would be heard by the SCA, in Bloemfontein, on May 5, almost a month after the 24th anniversary of Hani’s death. The SACP reiterated this week it still wanted answers from Walus on Hani’s assassination on April 10, 1993. Walus’s co-conspirator in the killing of Hani, Clive Derby-Lewis, died last year from cancer, a few months after his release on parole. The appeal follows that by Justice Minister Michael Masutha in July, after the High Court in Pretoria had ordered the release of Walus, who emigrated to SA from Poland, on parole. Masutha said in his application the court had erred in its judgment and believed the appeal court would arrive at a different conclusion. Hani’s widow, Limpho Hani, referred inquiries to her lawyer, who could not be reached for comment. In its message on the 24th anniversary of Hani’s death, the SACP said he remained the embodiment of a true and honest leader, who never sought to advance his personal interests above those of the poor. The government has declared Hani’s grave and Wall of Remembrance a National Heritage Site. The SACP said the full circumstances of his murder had not been disclosed by his killers, Walus and Derby-Lewis. It said it wanted an official inquest into the killing. There was drama at the 24th anniversary commemoration of Hani’s death when the SACP said its second deputy general secretary Solly Mapaila had been the target of an assassination attempt at Hani's grave. This followed the emergence of a video of a man allegedly pointing a firearm at Mapaila before his address at the event had to be cancelled because of heavy rain. Mapaila later spoke out strongly against this “brazen” attempt on his life. The SACP said it would tighten security around all its leaders. The ANC has also condemned this action and said it would investigate it further. President Jacob Zuma delivered the keynote address at Hani’s commemoration, where he also received support from Limpho Hani. Hani said Zuma was there for her when her daughter was facing problems and he provided the support she needed. The Hani family has strongly opposed bail for the late SACP leader’s killers. Both Walus and Derby-Lewis were denied amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in the 1990s for not making full disclosure on the killing. Sunday Tribune