They were told two of the five accused were minors, aged 17, so they  were not allowed inside for the court proceedings. The minors, who cannot be named, along with three men, aged between 18 and 20, faced charges of murder, kidnapping and possession of unlicensed firearms. They were arrested at a house in uMlazi last Tuesday. Members of the public found Phiwayinkosi Mhlongo’s head close to Embizweni High School and alerted police. The uMlazi detectives 
assisted by crime Intelligence, K9 Unit and metro police were led to a house in uMlazi, where the suspects were found in possession of two unlicensed firearms. A short distance away at Manyuswa Primary School in F-section, police found the boy’s body with a single gunshot wound. According to the police report, Mhlongo was abducted from his home by unknown people last Monday. Magistrate Thulani Mbu-
yazi said because the matter involved under-aged children, only the family of the accused were allowed in court. The public and the media were asked to leave the courtroom. Disappointed community members waited outside to hear if the youngsters would be granted bail, but the matter was adjourned until next week for a formal bail application. “They cannot commit crime and expect to be released on bail just because they are under age. They must face the consequences,” said one of the angry community members. Meanwhile, in a separate incident, the body of 23-year-old Lindo Shezi was found in bushes near the uMlazi Railway Station early on Monday. Shezi had also apparently been abducted by unknown men on Sunday night from his uMlazi home. It is alleged he was taken to Nselele Junior Primary School where he was killed and his body was then dumped in the bushes. According to Shezi’s girlfriend, Philile Cele, Shezi was at home with her when unknown men armed with knives came looking for him. “He went outside to speak to them and they took him away. I thought he would come back soon, but he did not. “When I alerted the neighbours in the morning they told me about a body that had been found in nearby bushes. I went there and found that it was him. “He had wounds everywhere. His face and body was covered in blood,” she said. On Saturday a 22-year-old man, Sanele Nyawose, died of stab wounds after an argument at H section, not far from Shezi’s home. Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, police spokesperson, said the dead man’s friend, who was also stabbed, was rushed to hospital in a serious condition. Mbhele said no arrest had been made at this stage. Daily News