Both professionals were seen at Kearsney, catching up with coaches from their high school days and watching the young talent showcase their skills. The rugby festival, known as KERF, is considered to be one of the most competitive in the country and, in past years, the Sharks have used it to snap up the best rugby talent on offer for their academy. Sithole could not be reached for comment on his cellphone but his high school rugby coach from his days at Queen’s College in the Eastern Cape, Clinton Loest, spoke highly of the centre-cum-winger. “He was very good, even at the under-15 level, where he used to play centre but we decided to convert him to the wing, where he played three seasons with the first team and captained our first team during the school’s 150th anniversary. “He was different from the other players – his work ethic was incredible, he was dedicated. His work ethic got him where he is today,” said Loest. This week, Loest and Sithole were reunited at Kearsney where they watched a few matches together. Loest said the quality and the level of competition was “very high”. Like Sithole, Mtembu was a recipient of the first KERF Sharks Academy bursary awarded in 2008. He was moved to No 8 from centre in Grade 11 and joked that he only found out much later why the decision was made. “I was too slow for centre and I only found out the truth four years later. It was definitely a good move. “I’m a big family man. I had to pack up and leave my family to come to Durban. The day I left, my mother said to me: ‘Don’t let me down. You are going there for a purpose, give 100% percent’,” he said. Asked if he had spotted any promising players, Mtembu said his old school, Dale College in the Eastern Cape, had a talented fullback in Aphelele Fassi. Fassi will be joining the Sharks Academy. KERF-Sharks Academy Bursary Recipients since 2008 2008 Hendrik le Grange – Middelburg Technical College S’Bura Sithole – Queen’s College Tera Mthembu – Dale College 2009 Leon Makiwane – Queen's College Morne Stassen – Hoerskool EG Jansen Chris Cloete – Selborne College 2010 Neil Jordaan – Grey College Brendan Olivier – Nico Malan Kagiso Segole – Kearsney College 2011 Dries Swanepoel – Grey College Bloem Ryan Germishuys – Selbourne College Sphu Msutwana – Dale College 2012 Siyabonga Tom – Glenwood High (captain) Nqoba Mxoli – Westville Boys High Wion Robertse – Paarl Gim 2013 Matt Reece-Edwards – Kearsney College Mzwandile Mazibuko – Glenwood High Rikus Bothma – Paarl Gim Sarel Roux – Boland Landbou 2014 Kenny van Niekerk – Glenwood High Curtis Jonas – Glenwood High Adrian Heystek – Westville Boys’ High Justerino Davids – Dale College Barend Smit – HTS Middelburg 2015 Nico Peyper – EG Jansen Jordan Chait – SACS captain Heinrich Nieuwenhuizen – Selborne College Jaydon Morgan – Glenwood High Khuthazani Mchunu – Glenwood High 2016 Renier van Rooyen – Glenwood High Aphelele Fassi – Dale College Sibulele Mbana – Dale College SUNDAY TRIBUNE