Nouveau shut its door on March 23, but will reopen today. Wanda Matandela, CEO of Ster-Kinekor Theatres said that the decision to relocate Nouveau was based on Gateway’s ‘everything under one roof’ offering. “Our 18-cinema, state-of-the-art complex at Gateway is our flagship site. It is one of the chain’s most popular complexes, with its two luxurious Cine Prestige cinemas and stylish VIP Lounge, the mega-screen IMAX® theatre, our only cinema fitted with the amazing all-around sound of Dolby Atmos® and the exclusive SK Club lounge. To complete this ‘everything under one roof’ offering, it made perfect sense to add our Nouveau offering to the mix,” he said. According to a statement released by Gateway on its official Facebook page it says that during the refurbishment process to rebrand the existing four cinemas into Nouveau cinemas, movie goers will still be able to enjoy offerings that will be screened at other Gateway cinemas. “A selection of the popular art-house films that audiences have come to enjoy will continue to be screened at some of the other Gateway cinemas. When the Nouveau cinemas open, its customers will also have access to the exclusive Cine Prestige VIP Lounge, to relax and enjoy delicious platters or a cup of coffee and slice of cake either before or after the movie. And, those customers who enjoy the spectacular ‘live cinema’ theatre, opera, ballet and art exhibition productions from stages around the world, will not be disappointed. One of the Ster-Kinekor Gateway cinemas will continue to screen these as per the release schedules,” read the statement. After the renovations - Nouveau cinemas will occupy cinemas 12, 13, 14 and 15. Other renovations to the floor, set to take place in June will include a new-look foyer, a new booking process and new carpets, tiling and cinema seating. “Gateway continues to perform as one of our most popular venues for moviegoers in Durban and uMhlanga, plus the thousands of holidaymakers who flock to this popular city throughout the year. Cinema is a growing business for us in South Africa, and our circuit continues to deliver great attendances. With a number of big blockbuster titles set to release this year, and genres to suit all tastes playing out on our 480 large-scale screens daily, we will continue to enthrall, delight and entertain our audiences,” said Matandela.