Hosted by actress, Nomzamo Mbatha, and comedian, Joey Rasdien, Nickelodeon SlimeFest – the first of its kind for Durban - will see a variety of fun family- friendly Nickelodeon TV characters come to life to interact with kids. During the two day festival, SpongeBob SquarePants, Dora and Friends, Chase and Marshall from Paw Patrol and amphibious heroes, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, will entertain kids in a sing-along concert at the Dolphin Aquarium. “There isn’t many family oriented events of this nature that take place in Durban so I’m extremely glad to be a part of this international slimy adventure that takes place on my home soil. We’re going to have so much fun and visitors will be able to reconnect as a community, but more importantly as a family again,” said Mbatha. Amongst all the slime, there will also be a three hour music jamboree at Wet ‘n’ Wild  featuring local artists Emtee, K.O, The Kiffness, Twins on Deck, Timo OVD , Cassper Nyovest (April 8) and Mafikizolo (April 9) to end the day. uShaka Marine World will be transformed into an icky, sticky, squelchy green and orange paradise for an unforgettable weekend of epic entertainment and slimy silliness. Guests will be able to enjoy a Slime Blaster Battle, take a relaxing  Slime Shower,  slither around on the Zorb Ball Slime Pool or get to grips with their arch-enemy during a bout of Slime Sumo. “I am really looking forward to getting slimed and hanging out with some of my favourite childhood cartoon characters like the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. As I was growing up we had a lot of different cartoons like Recess and Kim Possible and Tom and Jerry but it’s really great to see the development in characters since then, some of which are extremely educational,” said Mbatha. For tiny tots there will be games, treasure hunts and soft play in the Pre School Zone, while tweens and teens can enjoy skateboard workshops with professionals in action or even try for themselves. Senior vice president and managing director of Viacom International Media Networks (VIMN) Africa said SlimeFest is one of Nickelodeon’s is the most engaging event franchises around the world. “We are delighted to bring SlimeFest to African shores for the first time. Combining Nickelodeon’s kids and family friendly ethos with our beloved TV characters, great music, star power and a host of slime-orientated activities, SlimeFest is sure to be a huge success,” he said. * Tickets for SlimeFest are priced at R250 (single ticket) and R230 (per ticket for a family of four) and R220 (per person for groups of 10 or more) are available at Computicket and uShaka marine World’s online ticketing service. Entry is free for children under 3 years and children under 12 years must be accompanied by an adult. Gates open at 8am.