DURBAN - JUST AS President Jacob Zuma’s cabinet reshuffle came with a few surprises, the presenter reshuffle of SABC’s urban radio station Metro FM has been dramatic. Some Metro FM listeners have voiced their displeasure, taking to social media to express their dissatisfaction. However, the station appears to be ignoring the voices of dissent and has instead moved to replace those who have left. The presenters who have departed unexpectedly include Unathi Msengana, DJ Glen Lewis and Bonang Matheba, who left abruptly this week after her first show with Lerato Kganyago in the 10am-noon slot. Lewis was quickly replaced by former 5FM breakfast jock, DJ Fresh (real name Thato Sikwane), while Dineo Ranaka replaced Matheba less than 24 hours after the vacancy became available. Former Metro FM DJ Tbo Touch (real name Thabo Molefe), the brains behind the digital radio station Touch HD, has shaken the public radio station, scooping Glen Lewis and fuelling the fires with tweets suggesting he was keen to sign more high-profile Metro FM jocks such as Robert Marawa, whose future remains uncertain. It’s been a case of adapt or jump. Entertainment commentator Phil Mphela said the radio personalities were attempting to take charge. “I don’t think its an issue of people thinking they are bigger than the station. The issue we have to look at is that people of talent are taking control of their careers and where they want their careers to go. “They are no longer fearful to take a stand, unlike before where they were quiet. We have seen it in television, now it’s radio. People are now feeling confident enough to stand up; they can no longer be exploited,” said Mphela. He said there was some concern from the station’s side. “Every year around this time people get to negotiate their contracts, and radio stations get to reshuffle. “It’s expected there will be some changes, but Metro FM is concerned that people are leaving but they are not saying why.” However, Mphela says the changes won’t have that much of negative impact on listeners. “The only thing that would actually hurt Metro FM is the internal issue of mismanagement. “I don’t think people like Bonang or Glen leaving would have a significantly negative impact on the station,” he added. RIGGED Metro FM has been em- broiled in controversy this year, with rapper Riky Rick lashing the station at its own music awards claiming that awards were being rigged. With all the hype around online radio, could this mean a new era for broadcasting, with online radio the future? “The future of online radio is tied to the future of our internet. “An example – so many people are excited about Touch HD but they have taken to social media to say that they downloaded the app and 2GB of data was finished in one day. That person is likely to delete the Touch HD app because it costs too much to listen to it,” said Mphela. And it is not clear how online radio is regulated. The Broadcasting Complaints Commission of South Africa and the National Association of Broadcasters said they were not involved with online radio. Icasa spokesperson Paseka Maleka said online radio was not regulated in South Africa. * The article has been updated to reflect Phil Mphela as an entertainment commentator and not an entertainment industry expert as incorrectly quoted. SUNDAY TRIBUNE