DURBAN - There is a dire shortage of chartered accountants. This, despite 107 students graduating at the University of KwaZulu-Natal with their CTAs, which allow them to sit for Chartered Accountancy of South Africa CA (SA) board exams. UKZN’s acting dean and head of the School of Accounting, Economics and Finance, Dr Mabutho Sibanda, said the short supply of CAs was a national problem. The SA Institute of Chartered Accounting’s (SAICA) Karen Iten said the shortage was caused by the limited number of pupils who were eligible to study to become CAs as they needed high marks in core subjects such as mathematics. “Unfortunately, too few learners choose maths at school. Also, the accounting profession has to compete within this relatively small pool of suitable candidates with all the other professions,” said Iten. "Research conducted by the SAICA showed CAs ranked in the top 10 positions that companies found most difficult to fill,” said Karin. “Looking at the candidate population demographics for SAICA’s two qualifying exams (the initial Test of Competence and the Assessment of Professional Competence), over 50% of the exam population who sit for the qualifying exams are women. “This illustrates that over half the aspiring CAs who are on the pathway to qualifying are women,” said Iten. One of the class of 2017’s graduating UKZN students, Kineta Garach, who has ambitions to be a CA, graduated summa cum laude in her BCom studies. “My love for figures and natural flair for accounting has motivated me to pursue a career in the accounting field. My father, who is a professor in taxation (Professor Dilip Garach), has been my inspiration,” said Kineta. “My goal is to work towards my CA and strive to be the best. Coming from a family of accountants, my mum who has a master’s degree and is involved in the corporate world, my two sisters who are also qualified in business, commerce and finance, and my father being a professor in tax, there has always been high standards set which encouraged me to reach greater heights in my studies. "My family is very proud of my achievement,” she said. Shanelle Singh, who was among the top achievers, plans to further her studies and pursue an honours degree. “CAs are equipped with a wide variety of sought-after skills which are in demand in many different industries,” she said. “There will be many job opportunities in the future. I am registered to do my honours in accounting. My plan is to proceed with a training contract with KPMG in 2018, concurrently completing the two prerequisite board exams to become a CA (SA). Afterwards I would like to specialise in business rescue,” she said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE