Durban - ANC supporter Thami Mthimkhulu has dared Gauteng government official Kay Sexwale to bring it on if she insists he lied as he faces a R1 million defamation suit.Mthimkhulu, who is known as Razo on social media, is being sued over tweets where he claimed Sexwale was part of a team whose mandate was to spread dirt about opposition parties in the municipal elections last year. This was despite court papers filed by PR consultant Sihle Bolani, who is seeking R2.2m from the ANC, not making any mention of Sexwale in the alleged ANC war room saga.Speaking to Independent Media on Saturday afternoon, he acknowledged receiving court papers from Sexwale s lawyers, but said he was not bothered.He said he would neither retract the tweets nor apologize to Sexwale as the letter of demand from Sexwale s lawyers requests. The letter of demand issued to Mthimkhulu on Friday said he had five days to pay the R1m lawsuit he faced, retract or delete the tweets, otherwise he would be issued with summons for the collection of the R1m plus interest and costs. Mthimkulu said he had consulted his lawyer and had decided to wait for the five days to lapse. I saw on social media that I was being sued. I laughed at the tweet because this is all funny to me. If I had made up a lie, I would be worried. There is no defamation case and she (Kay) knows it, he said. Mthimkhulu insisted that the dirt campaign was the brainchild of Sexwale. He dismissed the case against him as an attempt to salvage Sexwale s reputation. Since the court papers were filed, I have received calls from her people asking me not to involve others whom I know were involved in this. If she takes it to court, it will end up getting her in trouble because there were high-profile politicians who were involved in this and I will be compelled to reveal names as I will be in a corner, he said. I said the posters were from her because they were sent by people who work for her, people who said they were acting on her instruction to get others to distribute the material on social media, he said. Sunday Tribune