Durban - The family of South African photojournalist Shiraaz Mohamed, who was kidnapped in Syria on Tuesday, are devastated, saying not knowing was the hardest part. His mother Shireen Mohamed begged anyone who may have him to return him safely to his family. Mohamed was on assignment with humanitarian aid organisation Gift of the Givers when he was kidnapped. He has been missing for five days despite promises that he would be released. According to founder of the organisation, Imtiaaz Sooliman: Shiraaz was with two of our people at the Turkish border on his way out of Syria. They took the road they normally take when transporting patients by ambulance. It s a relatively safe route. There s never been an incident here in all these years. When they passed the Gift of the Givers Al Hilal hospital, two cars suddenly boxed them in. Our driver hooted at them to move out of the way. A few men with guns got out, they were very calm, and came to the car. They opened the doors put a gun to the head of our two people, and looked at Shiraaz. Our people told them not to take Shiraaz as it could harm support for the hospital. They replied that they thought that there was some misunderstanding and that they needed to question him and will return him in two days he said. They blindfolded the three of them and drove for about an hour. Within five minutes of taking off from the point of capture,a cellphone rang. They confiscated it. At the end of an hour they stopped at a certain point and got out. They asked if Shiraaz was a foreigner. They asked if he has a passport. They asked if he s Muslim and asked about the Turkish delegation that entered Syria earlier that day. They asked about Dr Ahmad who heads the hospital. They said everyone knows him because he helps. They then released the two others and returned the cellphone. When asked who they were, they said they represent all groups inside Syria. They said they only want to question him and will return him in two days to the Gift of the Givers Ar Rahma Hospital, Sooliman said.The Department of International Relations and Co-operation spokesperson Nelson Kgwete said: The department cannot confirm the kidnapping. We have not been notified of the incident officially, we have heard about it only through the media. Our missions in neighbouring countries will follow up with the authorities there and will report back. Kgwete said the department could not do much as there was no South African representative in the country. If he is kidnapped, we will rely on the intervention of the Syrian authorities to rescue the kidnapped, there is nothing we can do In a statement on social media, the family said, Shiraaz s passion for pictures and people led him into a distinguished career as an international photographer of note, with his pictures being featured regularly in the New York Times among others. Last year, he travelled to 12 countries. He flew to Nepal to cover the earthquakes on a solo trip knowing he may not return, but did it anyway for the love of photography. At a local level he was the publishing editor of Ennerdale Sun and Roshnee Gazette, starting his career on Southern Globe all local community tabloids in the south of Johannesburg. Over the past 13 years his publishing career catapulted him onto the international news scene, more so in the past three years. He was fearless in this pursuit, facing life threatening situations on many an occasion. His pictures of the xenophobic violence unfolding in Johannesburg last year featured all over the world. He was determined to document all of life s events and planned for several international trips this year. [email&#160;protected]Sunday Tribune