Durban - Unemployed doctors were upset by statements made by Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi this week, saying he made it seem like there wasn t a need for their services in the public sector , despite a critical shortage of doctors at state hospitals.The SA Medical Association (Sama) has supported the doctors, describing his views as disappointing. Speaking at a press briefing in Pretoria to address the issue of unemployed doctors and interns, Motsoaledi said after completing their community service, doctors had various options. They could return to university to specialise, venture into private practice or enter the private health industry. Some left the country. When they do all these, they have no obligation to inform the Department of Health, so they have no way of knowing them or their numbers. However, if they wish to remain in the public sector, we have at least 147 posts available for them, said Motsoaledi.But the doctors said his statements were hogwash . On a closed Facebook group, they said there were no posts in KZN and this was reflected on the department s website. Can t believe this c***. This is lies and not a solution this is basically saying we don t care that you re not finding work in government. Also, where are these posts the minister speaks off? &quot;I called hospitals I want to work at and they said they don t have funds for posts, said Dr Faheem Baba. Dr Avneeta Ramdukhi said: I feel helpless now. Our own health minister had this to say. After we as doctors risk our lives and are willing to work in government hospitals. &quot;We just want posts available. He stated he received our lists of jobless doctors from Sama and if this is his response, what do we do now? Sama chairman Dr Mzukisi Grootboom said the department had no mechanism to inform doctors of available jobs after community service. It is preposterous to suggest the department has no obligation to doctors in this regard In a time of information technology this is perplexing and outdated. Instead, we have to learn from a media conference there are 147 available posts.&quot; nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.zaSunday Tribune