Durban - He was known as the most notorious criminal in South Africa, but Ananias Mathe was once a loving husband and father.This week, Mathe, 41, was laid to rest at his homestead in Mozambique, his coffin surrounded by his mother Sasira, 72, two wives, Elizabeth Mathonsi 32, and Celeste Mamate, 36, his seven children, two grandchildren and about 200 neighbours from Xicumbane village, in Xai Xai, Mozambique.Speaking to the Sunday Tribune after the funeral on Tuesday, Mathonsi said it was important in their culture to bury Mathe in a dignified manner. The mighty God provides even for those who cannot provide for themselves in difficult times, she said. Mathonsi said she understood he was a brutal man to many South Africans, but it was her responsibility to give him a dignified send-off for the sake of his children who hardly knew him. We now have closure, said Mathonsi.Her struggle to get Mathe s body home was a long one, delayed by money problems. We have no money so we had to borrow to come to fetch his body. My brother-in-law Philimon Madzudzi (Mathe s cousin) lent me money and we used his bakkie to come to Durban. If it was not for him, the funeral would not have taken place, she said, adding she was grateful to the Mozambican consulate for fast-tracking the necessary paperwork. While waiting for the paperwork to be processed, Mathonsi and Madzudzi slept at a petrol station in the city centre. I am a believer, I knew God will make the plan when we got to Durban, the process went well, and we managed to sort all the paperwork in three days. A Good Samaritan policeman gave us a donation for fuel then we managed to drive back home with my husband s body, she said. Mathe died on December 27 at King Edward VIII hospital. The Department of Correctional Services said he died of natural causes. However, Mathonsi said she had no idea her husband was sick. I last spoke to him in October, when he called home asking me for money. He said he had no food and was starving, which was why he tried to escape. I borrowed the money and sent it to him and that was the last I heard from him before we were told of his death, she said. Mathe packed his bags, and took a bus to South Africa in 1999 in search of better work prospects at least that s what he told his family. Before he arrived in the country, Mathe worked for the Mozambique Defence Armed Forces. Mathonsi said Mathe came to South Africa to get a better salary as their family was growing and living hand-to-mouth. He was a secretive and principled man back then. He used to attend Anniversary International Church while he was still living with us. My husband didn t drink alcohol and he never took drugs or even smoked cigarettes. He became a strange man later and I have no idea where such brutality came from or what triggered in his mind to make him change, she said. When Mathe came to South Africa he stayed in Tembisa township in Gauteng. He would send R100 every month to his family and visited them at least once a year during Christmas. said she never knew where Mathe worked, adding he had a good relationship with his children especially his eldest son Tembi Mathe, who was shocked when the South African Police Service paid a visit to their home when his father was on the run in early 2000.Mathonsi said life had been difficult for them even while Mathe was alive. He spent years in prison for his criminal activities. We knew he was not a good man to many, but it was important for the family and especially his kids; he will be always a beloved dad to them despite the life he lived. I have to tell my children life goes on. We believe in God, we will pray no one dies from hunger. She pleaded with Mathe s victims to forgive him. Mathe s family live in a one-room shack and they survive by growing crops.Sunday Tribune