Businesswoman and Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula s wife, Nozuko Mbalula, has proclaimed her innocence and described allegations linking her to a R1billion tender fraud as damaging and lies. I m very angry. I m seeking legal advice on how to clear my name in this regard. I m being labelled a fraudster. I feel my name has been abused, the visibly irritated Mbalula said. I m not a media person, but now I ve got to go against my own principle to denounce the lies being said about me. Why am I being used as the face of a fraudulent scheme that has got nothing to do with me? Nozuko made the remarks after the Sunday Times reported that she and the SABC s Hlaudi Motsoeneng, as trustees of MMD Development and Imbuma trusts, allegedly benefited from a fraudulent spending spree by the Free State s Department of Human Settlements when it was still under the now minerals minister, Mosebenzi Zwane.The money, amounting to hundreds of millions, was reportedly earmarked for the development of RDP houses which were never delivered, the Sunday Times reported, quoting court papers lodged at the Bloemfontein High Court, where an application to recover the cash has been lodged. Mbalula denied she received R38million to build 350 low-cost houses in the Free State. It s all blatant lies, which I refute, and contrary to what s been reported, I m not being sued for R1bn. Fikile, an ANC heavyweight, said he was clear and confident his wife could never be involved in such criminal activities. The provincial department was taking legal steps to recoup about R88m from 106 contractors and suppliers cited as respondents in court papers Independent Media has seen, who allegedly received upfront payments between November 2010 and March 2011 to develop more than 14&nbsp;000 low-cost houses. In combined summons dated December 10, 2013, IHC Building Supplies (Pty) Ltd was listed as the first defendant and Motsoeneng and Mbalula as third and fourth defendants, respectively, in their capacities as trustees of the MMD Development Trust.But Mbalula said she was not a trustee of the latter, and said Imbuma folded in 2013 as it was no longer involved in any business. It s not like I took steps to deregister it to cover up corruption. Imbuma Trust did not receive any money from government. I didn t even have a right to be building houses at the time, as I was not accredited by industry bodies such as the National Home Builders Registration Council, she said, in the presence of her legal adviser.Fikile Mbalula said: I think the allegations come from overzealous, go-between people who are disgruntled because they didn t get what they wanted. Nozuko was adamant that the department s legal action would be defended in court. When approached for comment, Motsoeneng refused to comment, saying he had no interest in the matter. @luyolomkentanePolitical Bureau