Durban - The Metro Police have increased policing visibility and installed CCTV cameras in Westville in an effort to monitor and respond more effectively to crime. This follows heightened incidents of hijacking, house robberies and murder there this month. But despite the increased police presence yesterday, a silver VW Polo was stolen from a petrol station. The police watched the incident via the mobile CCTV station and quickly sealed all exits and entrances, but by the time of going to press the vehicle had not been recovered. An armed response officer was killed in Westville last week while responding to a house robbery in the area. eThekwini Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer, who is also the chairwoman of the eThekwini Security and Disaster management unit, said her integrated approach to increasing high-visibility policing in the suburbs was an effort to reduce crime in Westville. Peer said the recent crimes called for a robust and sustainable community crime-prevention pilot project, which was launched on Friday.Fighting crime is a team effort. In Westville this week were: Captain Desi Govendor, Inspector Norman Payne, Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer, dog handler Heath Morrison, Inspector Dirkie Lee, Superintendent Gwen Ngubane, Captain Victor Thwala, Des Moodley and Constable Nkosinathi Lushaba. Picture: Zanele Zulu The 24-hour patrol would include mobile CCTV stations, motorised patrol cars, motorcycles and the dog and equestrian units. The challenge in Westville is that it has a number of exits and entrances. We are aware that most criminals come from nearby areas such as Newlands, Clermont, Chesterville and Nanda. Because of the bushy terrain criminals hide in the bushes, and the Equestrian Unit will assist in that regard. We have all the dedicated police units. Criminals have nowhere to hide. Within 24 hours of this initiative, they managed to arrest one suspect, and a firearm and laptop was recovered. We hope this will yield better results and reinstate the freedom of Westville residents who live in fear, said Peer. Peer said the project would be launched in other areas. Project leader Superintendent Gwen Ngubane said their CCTV station could monitor the whole area, including the nearby townships. She pleaded with the community to work with police to help fight crime. Westville residents welcomed the project.Nadesan Dilley said people were living in fear. I know some people who have left here because of security issues, he said. We are happy. At last, the metro has done something about it. It has been hard to sell a house in this area. We are hoping the project will see a decline in crime and we will feel safe in our homes, added Dilley. Sunday Tribune