The centre, based in Durban, hosted a lunch and entertainment day for over 300 guests from local shelters and street corners. While Chris Abraham, 40, patiently waited for their first meal of the day after singing along to golden oldies, he shared his plans for Christmas - which would be a day like any other. Abraham came to Durban in March after fleeing from Cape Town where street-life would lead to drug-abuse and gang fights. “I sleep at the Durban station every night, it’s better than being forced into gangs and doing drugs in Cape Town. I came here because I didn’t want that to happen to me there, I’m a child of God, not a gangster,” he said. At first, Abraham felt alone in Durban, but is now well-known in Durban’s homeless community and was often seen with Jay Steyn. Steyn, 22, came to Durban from Johannesburg two years ago in search of better working prospects. She was scammed and left to fend for himself on the streets. Like Abraham, Steyn will spend Christmas doing the usual run-around in search for a hot meal. “It’s the first time I’m coming here and I hope to come next year,” Steyn said. Organising member of the event, Raymond Perrier said the initiative was created with the purpose of reconciling humanity through sharing a meal and putting aside differences including those physical and financial. While most were in festive spirits, a homeless couple had their Christmas lunch in a sombre mood as they were without their their 8 month old daughter. Allen Naidoo, 38, and his wife Arisha have lived at a shelter near the Durban Harbour for two years since Naidoo lost his job as a truck assistant. His family refused to provide shelter for him, and a family member has since taken Naidoo’s eight month old child away to a place of safety. Said Arisha: “I’m really looking forward to the meal as I miss eating chicken and rice with salads. I will make sure we take leftovers if the are any to eat later.” 68-year-old Mandolo Dlangamandla, from Eastern Cape, looked forward to the presents that were expected to be handed to guests at the end of the lunch day. Dlangamandla came to Durban five years ago after being unable to bear constant abuse from her husband’s mistress. ‘’This is my fifth Christmas in a shelter, and I know the lunch will be wonderful, just like last year,” she said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE