She used the internet to find out how to make it and her home-made slime was a hit with her friends, so she decided to turn her slimy idea into a business. Zaara will be in Grade 3 next year at Northlands Primary School in Durban North. Her mother, Nasima Kader, said Zaara’s initiative in starting a business in tough economic times should be celebrated. Oober Slime, she said, was a proudly South African home-crafted product that had come into being through the wit and enthusiasm of a little girl. Zaara said she made her Oober Slime in her mother’s kitchen at their home in Durban North. She said she had told her friends about it and they were keen to buy it. This made her think about turning it into a business. “I saw some children playing with slime at school. When I got home I researched it on Google and YouTube,” said Zaara. “I watched videos of people making slime. I liked it and wanted to try. I found out about the ingredients, begged my mom and dad to get them and we made slime.” Zaara started her business in October. She sells her slime at school, a madressa, the Courtyard Christmas Market, a café on The Point called Ciao Bella, the Rivertown Night Market on Morrison Street and the monthly I Heart Market at Moses Mabhida Stadium. Oober slime prices range from R25 to R35. It comes in a variety of colours and “funky” flavours with glitter and “cool” charms. “I think my business is doing okay. I have sold many tubs of slime and a lot of people like it,” she said. “My parents also help me clean up after I’ve made the slime. My little brother, Rayhaan, who is four, tries to help but makes a mess. I got him to test the slime. “My mom also helps take orders and Dad loves to experiment and come up with new ideas.” Zaara loves maths and creative writing at school. She said her favourite teacher,  who she loves and thinks is sweet and kind, is Ms Goncalves. Inspired by fellow slime-maker  American Karina Garcia, she hopes to enjoy similar success with Oober Slime. Garcia’s slime sells at Walmart and she has written a book about making slime. “I would love toy shops to sell my Oober Slime,” she said. “My dream is for my slime business to grow, and to also sell it online.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE