Sometimes the cause is political intolerance, says Durban-based businessman Vivian Reddy, who has spearheaded social cohesion programmes in KwaZulu-Natal.   Last week, a group believed to be members of the ANC Youth League in KwaDukuza stormed an event where former finance minister Pravin Gordhan was scheduled to speak. They dumped faeces at the entrance of the Siva Sungum Hall, where religious and cultural events are held, which prompted an altercation between them and the Concerned Citizens Group (CCG), which organised the event. It was the third such assault on Gordhan, who has called for President Jacob Zuma to step down.   Reddy said: “With the ANC December elective conference approaching, I don’t believe this was an issue of polarisation between the black and Indian communities but rather tension in politics.” He said much work had been done by King Goodwill Zwelithini to curb racial tension in the province. “A prayer service was held recently where Indians joined their African brothers and sisters in prayer to put the past behind us,” said Reddy.  “There are many stalwarts in the Indian community, but unfortunately the history of this community has been forgotten by some members of society.” Reddy urged businesspeople, politicians, churches and communities to work together in ridding the province of tension. “It is my hope that we can make an effort to be one through social cohesion and for that we need to have honest dialogue.” Ben Madokwe, the chairperson of the Active Citizens Movement (ACM), a civic organisation that works to unify South Africans across the racial divide, said: “The issue is not Indian and black people fighting, it’s that when the people of Stanger invited Gordhan to address the crowd, individuals with a political agenda disrupted the event.” Madokwe said such people were hellbent on suppressing freedom of speech, which was enshrined in the country’s constitution. “Political tension has been orchestrated by certain individuals, not ordinary people. Those who have an agenda want to drive parts of the province in a certain direction,” said Madokwe. The chairperson of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, Ashwin Trikamjee, said: “I don’t believe it’s racial tension. This perceived racial tension was created by opportunistic, reckless individuals. “We, the Indian community, have been in South Africa for 157 years and have been part of this country’s development.  “Many Indians made sacrifices in the struggle against apartheid.” ANC provincial secretary Super Zuma said: “We are concerned about what is happening in the province. We appeal for tolerance from everyone.” Zuma said Gordhan’s sacking in March had fuelled the tension. “Some people made this a race issue when it wasn’t. The president has recalled ministers before  and there was no revolt in the form of marches.”  Political analyst Thabani Khumalo said there was a “quiet war” between Indians and Africans in the ANC which had spilled over to the communities.  “Indians feel excluded in the ANC. Their hope now lies with presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa ahead of the elective conference.” If Ramaphosa did not win, there would be an exodus of Indians from the ANC, he said. “They will probably form a splinter party,” he said.  Khumalo said social cohesion had been in reverse in the province because of the internal tension in the ANC. SUNDAY TRIBUNE  