But it’s not all bad news. There is a way we can prevent the holiday bulge and stay active without feeling obliged to hit the gym or neglect our friends and family. Not only is exercise important for weight management, but it is important to remain active for your overall health and
well-being. Here are a few guidelines to stay active during the festive season: *  Explore your holiday destination on foot. Walking is a great form of exercise. Wear some comfortable walking shoes and spend some of your days exploring your destination and surrounds. *  Make nature your playground. Most destinations have hiking trails or walking routes nearby. Pack a picnic basket full of healthy treats, get the family and go for a hike in the mountains or along the beach. *  Enjoy the outdoors by taking along your bicycle. Enjoy a nice bike ride through the town you are visiting or go exploring in the surrounding mountains. Most popular destinations offer bicycle rental services should you not have your own. *  Plan some fun outdoor activities for family and friends. Friendly competition such as volleyball, soccer, cricket and touch rugby can be enjoyed in a park, on the beach or in the garden, and will get you moving. *  Try something new. The holiday season is the perfect time to try something different. Check out the local classes and activities. Whether yoga, stand-up paddle boarding, dancing or surfing, the holidays are a great time to let go and try something active you’ve never done. Who knows? You might have a hidden talent. *  Travelling abroad? Research the destination and your accommodation. Most hotels or towns offer gym facilities. Contact the local gym and arrange a special membership rate for the duration of your stay. *  Pack your own equipment. You can still travel light while taking along your own exercise equipment. Pack a skipping rope, running shoes and some resistance bands. These fit conveniently in your luggage, and give you a great full body workout. Ask your biokineticist or trainer for an easy to follow programme. *  There are many exercises that require no equipment. Body weight squats, push-ups, pull-ups and the plank are great exercises for a full body workout. Consult your biokineticist regarding good form on these exercises to avoid injury. *  Quality, not quantity. High-intensity interval training is a great way to get your workout done without taking a lot of time out of your holiday. High-intensity interval training incorporates full body exercises at high intensity for a short duration - giving you a full body workout in just a few minutes. *  Serious athletes, plan your trip well in advance with your biokineticist or coach. This way, your programme can be designed to fit your holiday requirements - to be either a taper week of training or to incorporate convenient methods of training such as cross-training without losing any fitness or progress towards your goals. *  Monitor your fitness. Keep track of your daily steps and fitness goals by wearing a pedometer or smart watch. This can be a key motivator to keep moving and stay active during the festive season. *  Set achievable goals. If you are serious about your fitness and training, set yourself achievable goals for the festive season, to ensure you’re motivated. But don’t forget to have some fun. With technology at our fingertips, one can work out anywhere, any time. There are many apps available that provide us with fast and convenient training programmes. Explore your options on the app store suited to your mobile device. Before you embark on your trip, consult your biokineticist and dietitian on ways to stay healthy and active while still having a great time. It is all about balance. The most important point of all is to have fun. It’s holiday time, and there’s no need to be limited to the gym. Find activities that you enjoy. Explore, try new things and have fun while staying active.  *  Hurter is a biokineticist at Kingspark Sports Medicine Centre in Durban - contact: monique@kpmed.co.za SUNDAY TRIBUNE