Durban The ill-fated Tongaat Mall that collapsed three years ago, killing two construction workers, has been sold and a new shopping centre is to be built on the site.PropRoyale Developments, in partnership with Investec Property and AJ Property Developments, have purchased the property from the current developer, Ravi Jagadasan, the son of well-known Durban businessman Jay Singh, for R32million.PropRoyale chief executive Murray Clark said construction was scheduled to start in the second half of this year. The new developers are waiting for the eThekwini Municipality to give the green light to demolish the collapsed structure. Clark said it was critical the rules were followed because they, as the new developers, would be under scrutiny because of the site s history. We deeply respect Tongaat s heritage and it s been heartening to hear from the town s residents. One thing is clear the community is desperate for a space where they can safely shop, eat and gather together. Our goal is to exceed their expectations by creating a dynamic centre that symbolises the spirit of Tongaat, said Clark.The developers have budgeted R300m for the project and aim to open the 16 500m&sup2; mall in April 2019. The scene of the mall that collapsed in Tongaat File picture: Neil Powell,Crisis Medical/AP&nbsp; The centre will have 41 shops and 1000 parking bays and Clark said they were in talks with retailers like Spar, Pick n Pay, the Foschini group and banks. At the moment, people from Tongaat have to travel to either Gateway or Ballito if they want to shop and we are hoping they embrace the shopping centre that we are going to build for them. I d like to personally assure the community that their long-awaited centre is now in the hands of a trusted team. The developers are arranging a meeting with the families of Zweli Masuku and Zakithi Nxumalo, the construction workers who were crushed. They want to discuss with them how they would like their loved ones to be honoured and remembered. We cannot run away from what happened and we don t want to disrespect the memory of the people who lost their lives there. It s important that we meet with the families first because we don t know if they would want a ceremony done or something else, Clark said.Tongaat Civic Association chairperson Jeeva Pillay said they were concerned that the existing mall had encroached beyond the building line towards the railway track and that a shopping centre on the allocated site would contribute to the traffic congestion challenge on the R102.Clark gave an assurance that they would be building within the property s boundary and had also purchased the neighbouring property to ensure there was enough space.The collapsed mall was a R208m project that was being developed by Rectangle Property Investments, whose sole director was Jagadasan. At the time of the collapse, the shopping centre was under construction by Gralio Precast, a company which lists Jagadasan and Jay Singh s former wife, Shireen Annamalay, as directors. After the tragedy, the Department of Labour established a commission of inquiry to determine if negligence led to the collapse. It found several contraventions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act and construction regulations, including building without approved plans.Mervin Reddy, spokesperson for Gralio and Rectangle Properties, said in 2015 the Department of Labour informed them the commission s report had been handed to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). This was to assess if anyone would be held criminally liable for what happened. They had not yet received any communication from the NPA.NPA spokesperson Natasha Kara had not responded to the Sunday Tribune s query about the charges at the time of publication. nokuthula.ntuli@inl.co.zaSunday Tribune