Maine reminded hundreds of delegates who attended the provincial elective conference in Durban of how “izimpimpi” were  dealt with during the struggle for freedom. “Who is this person representing? Is he the minister from the ANC or is he representing something else? “You know previously we use to call people izimpimpi, and now we want to sugar coat it. Certain things were done to izimpimpi in the past, before 1994,” said Maine. He said “something must be done to this comrade”. The attack on Gordhan followed his Budget speech, which was praised by some South Africans and assailed by adversaries, including the league and the Progressive Professionals Forum, for ignoring radical economic transformation. Speculation is rife that President Jacob Zuma might soon reshuffle the cabinet to replace Gordhan with newly appointed MP Brian Molefe, the former Eskom chief executive. However, some members of the majority party speculate that Zuma would be forced to keep Gordhan in the position because removing him would affect the economy as the ratings agencies were watching developments. Maine said the Budget speech was a sharp contrast to Zuma’s State of the Nation address, which “among many things speaks about the state  playing a role in transforming the economy of South Africa”. “The Budget does not present explicit plans on how it would assist black industrialists to expand their manufacturing base. Neither does it tell us how much it has set aside to assist black people to increase their presence in the property sector, which is valued at R7 trillion, and 95% of that is in the hands of white people,” said Maine. “The Budget speech continues to reflect and affirm the neoliberal agenda, which is hostile towards the poor, business-friendly and thus keeps the state away from strategic sectors of the economy.” He said Gordhan had failed to capture the mood for radical change of the ANC’s January 8 statement, the lekgotla resolutions and “most all the State of the Nation address by Zuma, which all made sound proposals on transformation”. “The Budget speech attitude and that of the State of the Nation address towards monopoly capital reflect two separate governments from two ideologically opposed parties. “We are saying ANC deployees in that department do not help us to move the country forward and achieve economic freedom in our lifetime.” Maine said Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas and finance director-general  Lungisa Fuzile should also leave. He said the rating agencies were overstepping their mark as they were monitoring developments around the ANC national conference. Gordhan said his spokesperson Yolisa Tyantsi was the better person to respond to Maine’s statement. However, she had not  responded by the time of going to press. Sunday Tribune