One such teacher is Bernadette Mercy Nkosi, 55, of Umlalazi Combined Primary, in Eshowe, who has been on sick leave since 2007. The department has spent R3 million on paying her salary and for substitute teachers. The Grade 4 teacher went on sick leave shortly after returning from another period of leave due a car accident which left her severely injured. It is unclear why she has not been medically boarded. “The accident traumatised her and she was not the same after it,” said principal Nomakhosi Ngubane. Ngubane said she reported the matter to the local Department of Education office and the school was regularly sent a substitute teacher. But there were some months they were not supplied with one. The school has not had a substitute teacher since September. Some of the teachers at the school expressed their frustration with the matter, saying they were compelled to take on additional classes whenever the department failed to send a substitute teacher, as was often the case. “The problem is that sometimes we don’t get a substitute teacher for months and we have to take on her load. “Instead of having 27 lessons per week, some of us who teach all subjects in one grade end up teaching about 35 lessons. “That’s hard because we still have to do administration work for all these subjects,” said one of the teachers who asked not to be named for fear of victimisation. Another teacher said the school’s timetable had become dysfunctional because it was drawn up with a substitute teacher in mind, but things became chaotic when there was no substitute and teachers had to work in a manner that prioritised key subjects such as language, numeracy and life skills. “We all want to help but I just feel that we are not being fair to the pupils because they are not getting all the knowledge that we are committed to teach them when we signed our work contracts,” she said. When the Sunday Tribune called Nkosi for comment, first she said she was busy and asked to be called later. But when she was called again, she terminated the phone calls. When she was called the third time using a different number, she became angry. “Who gave you my number? I don’t even want to discuss my health with strangers, don’t call me again,” she said, then terminated the call. Last year, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education had 833 teachers on long sick leave. Some were waiting for responses for their medical boarding from Thandile Health Risk Management, a service provider which assists the government with managing absenteeism, sick leave and medical boarding. “It is understandable that some are waiting for Thandile because medical boarding is a long process and we don’t want to cut any corners. “But every year we find ourselves having to take legal action against at least one teacher because they are trying to rob the department by playing sick,” said education spokesperson Muzi Mahlambi. He said some of the teachers who were on sick leave were caught running businesses, working overseas or having being appointed in teaching positions that are paid by the school governing body in other provinces. “The department processes at least 2 400 substitute teachers every year because teachers are either on sick, maternity or study leave. “Unfortunately, we find ourselves having to deal with criminals who take advantage of the system and have doctors who help them do that. People who are on sick leave must provide doctors’ notes.” Mahlambi said they would be following up on Nkosi’s case to establish how the school could be assisted so that its pupils did not suffer. “I must assure you that our attitude is merciless towards those who play sick. “If one is found to be doing so, we don’t just fire them, we go after their pension and properties as well.”  nokuthula.ntuli@inl.co.za  Sunday Tribune