Mohammed Sadiq Vawda, 24, and his brother Ahmed Khalil Vawda, 21, left for Syria via Turkey in November 2015. The brothers lived in Sherwood. Their father, well-known advocate and Islamic scholar, Mufti Emran Vawda, did not know of their intentions. Intelligence sources confirmed that the men left to join Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, formerly known as the al-Nusra Front, an al-Qaeda-aligned rebel organisation in Syria fighting against Islamic State. Intelligence sources said they were concerned that terrorist groups other than IS have been recruiting locals to travel to Syria, Turkey, Libya and Iraq to join their organisations. Their (intelligence officials') operational strategies was previously only focused on recruitment for IS. State Security spokesman Brian Dube said there are ongoing investigations into people who suspiciously leave the country and travel to Syria. Vawda wrote a letter last year about his journey in Syria to inform South Africans about the situation on the ground. It was widely circulated following his death, and he described the battles he was involved in as part of Jabhat Fateh al-Sham, especially in the Syrian town of Aleppo. He wrote, “I am here in the blessed land of al Sham and I would like to pen down a few words for those back home in South Africa about the current situation we are witnessing here and my personal experiences in Syria and Aleppo city in particular. “Many people are confused as to what is truthfully taking place here and in this short letter I would like to relate the truth so that you all understand the situation.” He detailed the battles he participated in and ended his letter saying, “To all Muslims in general, do all you can to help, especially in Syria. Help by utilising your voices, your wealth and yourselves. And that a fight here is not a fight for Syria but a defence for the entire ummah (Muslim world).” Social activist Yusuf Abramjee, who first broke the news of the death on Twitter, said he had since not heard anything from the family. The family declined to comment to the Sunday Tribune. But Ahmed Paruk of the Islamic Burial Council, who is a close friend of the Vawdas, said they were traumatised. “The information provided to them is very vague at this stage. They have been liaising with the relevant authorities and cannot seem to get the answers they’re looking for. Syria is such a war-torn country so getting information from there is sometimes impossible. “The boys left without telling their parents anything so nobody knows what their intentions were,” said Paruk. Department of International Relations and Co-operation spokesperson Nelson Kgwete said he had not not received any information.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  Sunday Tribune