Durban – The 16th edition of the Metro FM Music Awards took place last night at a star-studded affair. Attended by some of the country’s most celebrated musicians and showbiz figurescelebrities, the awards weretook place at Durban’s International Convention Centre. The evening was filled with shock after shock after many unexpected wins. Hosted by Metro FM DJs Pearl Modiadie and Amon Mokoena, the awards got off to a smashing start when DJ Speedsta was joined by young, up and coming collaborators, Tellaman and Yung Swiss for a performance of their smash hit, Mayo. When the trophy lifting finally got under way, it was new kid on the block Nasty C who walked away with the most awards. Of the four categories he was nominated in, he won a statuette for Best Hip Hop Album, Best New Artist and Best Male Album. Another new kid on the block, Amanda Black, who was nominated in five categories, and who was expected to take most of the awards for the evening, only walked away with only two, Best R&B Single and Listeners’ Choice. It was also a shock when Babes Wodumo walked away with nothing after receiving four nominations. Despite having one of the more celebrated albums of the year, Thandiswa Mazwai’s Belede was pipped to the award for Best Urban Jazz album by Henry Philemon’s Man of Definition. The awards served up another surprise when Botswana’s Vee Mampeezy walked away with the One Africa award over the likes of Tiwa Savage, Tekno and Patoranking. Besides for  the shock wins, it was another glittering evening filled with a number of memorable performances. African Pop Album: Musa Best Collaboration: Ms Pru featuring Emtee, Benchmarq, Fifi Cooper, A Reece Compilation Album: DJ Qness Dance Album: Mobi Dixon Female Album: Kelly Khumalo Group Album: Durban's Finest Hit Single: Riky Rick – Sidlukotini Hip Hop Album: Nasty C Kwaito: L’vovo Male Album: Nasty C – Bad Hair Extensions Music Video: Duboiz – Dope Dream New Artist: Nasty C Urban Gospel Albums: Dr Tumi – Love & Grace Urban Jazz Album: Henry Philemon R&B Single: Amanda Black – Separate Best Remix: Prince Kaybee – Don’t Give Up One Africa Award: Vee Mampeezy Best Produced Album: Sjava Best Styled Artist/Group: Mafikizolo Listener’s Choice: Amanda Black