DURBAN: The National Health, Education and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) is a major stakeholder in partnership with Tecmed, the company whose contract to supply radiotherapy equipment to the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health has been under investigation for eight years.
While the department, Nehawu and Tecmed all denied any union involvement in the tender deal awarded in 2009, a source with knowledge of the partnership confirmed that a union representative was brought in to negotiate a deal involving a R33-million maintenance contract for the machines in 2013. 
At the time, Nehawu also demanded that former provincial head of the department, Sibongile Zungu, be removed from office after she refused to authorise the maintenance contract, citing irregularities over the supply chain management process. Zungu also called for a probe into the procurement of the machines.
Pressed for answers, Tecmed admitted it had formed a company called Workers’ Health Medical as part of a black economic empowerment initiative. Nehawu is a major shareholder in the new company established with Tecmed.Tecmed executive chairperson Werner Begeré dismissed claims of dodgy dealings in the partnership with Nehawu, insisting it was only formed in 2016 and had no influence in earlier tenders. 
“The partnership did not play a role in that tender which was published legally and awarded to us in 2009. That tender was above board and we have nothing to hide. 
“We also want to put it on record that it’s not true we supplied the department with second-hand machines, as stated by the MEC.  
“Regarding the maintenance contract, we actually tried to assist the department because although we were awarded a maintenance contract in 2009 for just over R550 000 per month for five years, the department then approached us two months later saying they had budget constraints and asked us to lower our price. 
“We then dropped the maintenance contract to around R433 000 per month. They paid for 10 months then stopped, which is why we could no longer service the machines,” said Begeré. 
However, in a letter apparently sent to the department last month – and seen by The Tribune – Tecmed writes: “As one of the KZN Department of Health’s service providers, we would like to acknowledge you as a valuable client to our business.” 
The letter confirms the new partnership with the Nehawu-owned subsidiary Workers' Health Group, which owns 60% of the new company, Workers Health Medical Technologies. Tecmed owns 40%. The department has faced criticism over its handling of the cancer crisis in the province which has resulted in an exodus of oncologists nd radiotheraphy machines costing R120m laying unused at Addington Hospital for the past four years.  
The DA’s health spokesperson, Imran Keeka, said: “We need a forensic investigation into the tender involving Tecmed in light of allegations around their partnership with Nehawu. 
“This also explains why MEC (Sibongiseni) Dhlomo has been pandering to Nehawu. Clearly, he depends on them for support, which explains their silence on the damning finding against the department by the SA Human Rights Commission.” 
Approached for comment, provincial Nehawu secretary Phakama Ndunakazi said problems over cancer treatment in the province could not be blamed on Dhlomo but were a result of the department’s budgetary constraints. 
He also denied the union had any role in the procurement of any medical equipment at health facilities. SUNDAY TRIBUNE