DURBAN – A man and woman were shot and killed at uMlazi’s notorious Glebelands Hostel on Wednesday night, just minutes apart. The murders occurred just 10 days after the Moerane Commission investigating political killings in KwaZulu-Natal heard witness testimony about violence at the hostel. Police told African News Agency on Thursday morning that a 32-year-old man was shot in the head by unknown suspects at about 8.15pm on Wednesday night. About 15 minutes later, a 52-year-old woman who runs a tuck shop near her home at the hostel was also shot and killed.   Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told the African News Agency (ANA) that the male victim was taken to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. “The motive is unknown. A case of murder was opened at uMlazi police station for investigation,” she said. Responding to questions about the woman’s murder, Mbhele said: “It is alleged that yesterday just after 20:30, the deceased (52) was at her house where she is also running a tuck shop in Glebelands Hostel when she was approached by two unknown suspects pretending to be customers. The suspects shot the deceased in the head and chest before fleeing the crime scene. The motive is unknown.”  It was not immediately clear at which block the woman was shot or if the incidents were related.  Mbhele said that police deployments remained in place on a 24-hour basis at the hostel and encouraged residents to report criminal activities. Community activist Vanessa Burger, who testified before the Moerane Commission last week, said that the man killed on Wednesday was shot at Block P.  This was the second time the victim had been attacked, she alleged. “On 19 November 2015 he was shot - together with his mechanic while working on his vehicle - in almost exactly the same manner at precisely thesame time. Hitmen from Block O were suspected on that occasion,” said Burger. Burger told ANA that the woman who was killed was allegedly shot in front of her 14-year-old granddaughter. In her testimony before the commission, Burger said the hostel was a haven for hitmen that could be hired to operate throughout KZN and could be linked to 89 deaths in the province, including those of councillors. A former Glebelands resident testifying in-camera after Burger corroborated her testimony. That witness has since gone into hiding after alleging that he received a phone call after his testimony that he deemed threatening. Solomzi Mdledle, secretary of the commission, confirmed that the man had received a threatening call. Burger, the witness and others testifying before the commission also alleged that police were involved in hiring hitmen from the hostel and sold weapons there. Despite the allegations, police watchdog, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) and SAPS are yet to confirm that they will appear before the commission. On Friday, Commission chairman, advocate Marumo Moerane, professor Cheryl Potgieter and advocate Vasu Gounden inspected three blocks at the hostel that were mentioned during witness testimony. P Block did not form part of the visit. The commission resumes on 16 August in Mayville, Durban. AFRICAN NEWS AGENCY