DURBAN: WHEN Justin Nanak sings, it's always from the heart and it usually moves his audience.
Given his ability to hit the right notes, Nanak was commissioned in April by Cardinal Wilfrid Napier to produce a spiritually charged song for the Mini World Youth Day festival planned for December in Durban. Nanak, 30, of uMhlanga collaborated with good friend Thandeka Dube-Ndhlovu and together they produced the gospel praise and worship song The Mighty One. Bassy tones of a cello in the introduction, together with sounds from a piano, electric and acoustic guitars, drum beats and a choir singing, give this ballad, which was recorded in June, a classical feel. Earlier this week, The Mighty One music video was shot and is now available online. Nanak said putting the song together with Dube-Ndhlovu and recording the video was “an amazing experience”. “It was a huge honour when the cardinal asked me to do a song specially for the festival.” Nanak, who recorded his debut CD Your Will Be Done last year, thought it would be great idea to do a bilingual song (English and Zulu) which would capture the essence of Durban. “That's when I decided Thandeka, who is a powerhouse of a singer, should be a part of it.” Nanak said they set out to write a ballad that was based on scripture but with a youthful flavour. “It starts slowly, but the tempo is raised and it turns into an explosive anthem as the song progresses. “I was surprised at how quickly everything came together, and we've received some rave reviews from those who've heard the song.” He said shooting the video was an amazing experience. Karen van Pletsen was the creative person behind the video. “Cardinal Napier had a cameo role, musicians were hand-picked and we brought in the Kwa Thintwa School for the Deaf’s inspiring choir for backing. “There was not a dry eye in the room when the choir broke into song.” Nanak, a full-time musician, said he hoped the song would motivate people to achieve a deeper level of connection with God. “The song was completed early to get people familiar with it before the festival. “I will do more work with Thandeka in the future. Our voices combined well.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE