Speaking during his 69th birthday celebration at his Royal Palace in KwaNongoma yesterday, Zwelithini said he was annoyed that this was happening under a black-led government. He has called on the Zulus to protect their dignity and said the constitution had failed to recognise the rights of the Zulus, who played a vital political role in shaping our country. He invited all political parties to discuss this issue with him. Traditional song and dance were the order of the day. The celebration also marked 46 years of his reign as the King of the Zulu nation. His Majesty was showered with presents which included cows and horses. The day began with celebrations as izintombi, a dance performed by Zulu maidens, followed with a song bellowed by traditional warriors. Spectators and locals came from all over the country and watched in amazement as the SAPS and SANDF paraded.  A gala dinner then saw guests feast on the kings favourite meals. King Zwelithini is the longest reigning king in Africa and the second in the world after Queen Elizabeth II of England. Zulu Royal spokesperson Prince Thulani Zulu, the king’s brother, said they were happy to have a king that has ruled for so many years as kings 
did not live long in the past. King Shaka ruled for only 12 years. “This is the first time we have had a king that has reigned for such a long time and we feel humbled,” he said. The prince said they were also happy with achievements, such as playing a role in the fight against HIV/Aids by reviving the culture of circumcision. He said the king is currently leading the fight against social ills that has 
been a cancer in commu-
nities. “The king is vocal against crime and killings that have gripped the country, he is also against the scourge of women and child abuse,” he said. Prominent businessmen Ishwar Ramlutchman and Vivian Reddy also graced the ceremony. Ramlutchman described the king as a peacemaker and the unifier of the Zulus and other races. Ramlutchman has attended the king’s birthday celebrations for the past 25 years. “We wish the Zulu nation to prosper under his leadership and guidance,” he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE