DURBAN: One of the country’s most powerful sports bosses has been suspended.
Tubby Reddy, the chief executive of SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) has been at the centre of a sexual harassment investigation for the past two months. He is accused of sexual misconduct against female staff members. Reddy, who allegedly circulated pornographic images and lewd messages to some of his subordinates, has until tomorrow to provide Sascoc’s board with reasons his suspension should not be made permanent. Sascoc’s board is planning to convene a special meeting on Wednesday to deal with his case. According to a source, who asked not to be named, the allegations surfaced in May when a female staff member laid a formal complaint. Sascoc appointed an independent panel to investigate. The case has not been without drama. In May, a forged letter was sent to the media from the complainant’s computer, stating the allegations were false. “I hereby apologise for all allegations made against Sascoc CEO Tubby Reddy, and defamation to his character as I was pressurised by Sascoc president Gideon Sam, together with another board member who is involved, namely Kobus Marais,” the letter stated. It later emerged the complainant’s computer had been hacked. A copy of the complaint against Reddy was attached to the e-mail, which included allegations of harassment and intimidation. Another excerpt from the letter read: “Tubby is a very humble man, gives everything to sport and does not even have the support from his president and other members of the Sascoc board. I wish to apologise sincerely to Tubby and his family for putting them through this senseless and unnecessary hurt and smear campaign.” A source said that on learning about the investigation, Reddy allegedly by-passed Sascoc’s hierarchy and complained to Thulas Nxesi, the Minister of Sport. “He (Reddy) told the minister, in a letter, that he was being victimised by certain Sascoc members and the allegations were fabricated. “Sascoc was directed by the ministry to handle the situation.” The source said four other female staff resigned in recent years, because they were allegedly sexually harassed by Reddy. Sascoc appointed a committee to investigate the allegations, as directed by Nxesi. The committee concluded its investigations this week and found Reddy had acted unethically. It recommended he be placed on temporary suspension (48 hours) and present reasons to the board why his sanction should not be extended indefinitely. That decision was apparently conveyed to Reddy during a board meeting convened at its Rosebank headquarters on Friday. President Gideon Sam said: “This matter is not up for discussion. The minister asked us not to speak about this to the media.” Reddy said: “I’m not suspended, I don’t know what you talking about.” Nxesi’s spokesperson Sabelo Mali said he could not comment on the matter because Sascoc was an independent federation. SUNDAY TRIBUNE