DURBAN - That was the goal as 25 leading designers from India jetted into the city this week to showcase trending fabrics and share information with local fashion designers on global trends. The three-day event started last night with a VIP evening and glittering fashion show, with the latest collections being showcased on Saturday and on Sunday at The Square Boutique Hotel in uMhlanga. Speaking to The Independent on Saturday, two designers from Kolkata, Nurpur Kanoi and Dev Debarghya Bairagi, said it was their first visit to Durban which they see as a huge opportunity to share ideas and get inspiration. Describing her collection as “African art with an Indian heart”, Kanoi said she had travelled in Africa and found inspiration in the beadwork, body-painting techniques and body-tattoo patterns. “I have found a lot of similarities between the two cultures and have been mixing the two traditions together. I have brought a luxury sportswear inspired collection to showcase. I use Indian fabric with a modern twist and my fashion is not just for Indians, but for everyone. Our embroidery is very intricate and contemporary at the same time. Since arriving, I have been talking to people and exchanging ideas, it’s very exciting,” said Kanoi. Known in India for his Dev R Nil label, designer Dev Debarghya Bairagi said it was crucial to ensure his designs had global appeal and the embroidery detail on his garments was cutting edge, including a 3D aspect. Celeb designer Haroun Hansrot said the event was not only about fashion, but also “the business of fashion”. “So many people travel to India for fashion which is very expensive. I have travelled to India with David Tlale to get their beautiful fabrics, which  are amazing. Our textile industry is limited, there embroiderers are a dime a dozen and artisans flourish, but here we have a problem with haberdashery and accessories. “We have created a synergy between SA and Indian designers and we want to create a market for designers here, as well as exposing our designers to the Indian market. "One of our strengths in South Africa is our own embroidery and beading which can be fused with a whole Indian twist. “This  showcase event is not about the traditional Indian heavy beaded look, but about beautiful fabrics like pure silk chiffons which are almost weightless and gorgeous styles. We have given parameters to the designers on what will suit South African women, including a price angle and even the fabrics that will suit our climate. “We are trying to make it viable to open up the industry between SA and India,” said Hansrot. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY