DURBAN: English singing legend Sir Elton John and his partner Canadian film-maker, David Furnish, have raised about R50 million to build a new HIV unit at the KwaZulu-Natal Children’s Hospital.
The couple held a fundraiser two weeks ago at Old Windsor in the UK and partnered with elite international jewellery brand Bvlgari for the event. It was part of the Elton John Aids Foundation. The hospital was identified last year when John attended the 2016 International Aids Conference in Durban. The fundraising goal was to combat Aids among 13 to15 year olds in sub-Saharan Africa with the creation of a HIV unit within the newly established KZN Children’s Hospital. Chief executive of the KZN Children’s Hospital Trust, Dr Arthi Ramkissoon, was also present at the event. Ramkissoon said the trust was grateful for the fundraising efforts by John and Furnish. “We hope that having figures like these associated with the new unit would rope more sponsors into the project. It is expected to start at the end of 2017,” said Ramkissoon. John told the Sunday Tribune his mission was to create an Aids-free future. “We’re not going to achieve that if Aids remains the leading cause of death for 10 to19 years olds in Africa. Of all countries on the continent, South Africa has the most acute Aids epidemic and the largest number of people living with HIV/Aids. While my foundation doesn’t generally fund capital projects like this, we all felt there was a real opportunity to create a beacon of excellence with this project no one should be left behind in the fight against HIV,” he said. He said he loved South Africa and for five years in a row, he not only visited his foundation’s projects but holidayed here too. “It’s the most beautiful country and the people are so warm and incredible. I’d love to bring our sons here when they’re older. For now, I’ve got a huge amount of professional commitments coming up so we’ll just have to see when I can return. I’d love to visit the HIV Adolescent Centre when it’s finished,” said John.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE