Every year the Durban International Film Festival happens and the city is abuzz as film lovers and buffs, from around the country, the continent and the world descend. From the lavish parties and networking opportunities, there is never a shortage of things to do.
But the best part of the festival is the feast of film on offer. From obscure shorts to art house thrillers and everything in between, the Durban Film Festival often serves up some surprises. Here is my list of the feature films to see this year. Vaya Director: Akin Omotoso Starring: Warren Masemola, Harriet Manamela, Mncedisi Shabangu Synopsis: Three people board the train bound for Johannesburg. Strangers, each on their own mission, with a simple task to complete and in search of family to help them. Vaya interweaves three separate plots, that intersect and intertwine in a gripping, deeply moving and often funny narrative about struggling for survival and dignity in the city. Why it’s a must-watch: I feel like this film has been doing the rounds everywhere except here. I have been following Akin Omotoso since Jesus and the Giant. He has the ability to merge story and aesthetics in a seamless manner and I am excited to see what he offers in this thriller. It also stars Warren Masemola so, there’s that! The Wound Director: John Trengove Starring: Nakhane Touré, Bongile Mantsai, Niza Jay Synopsis: Xolani, a lonely factory worker, travels to the rural mountains with the men of his community to initiate a group of teenage boys into manhood. Why it’s a must-watch: Nakhane Toure is a force of nature. Probably one of the most important young artists in South Africa today. His debut in the provocative film about male circumcision, homosexuality and changing notions of tradition seems profoundly personal. A Moving Image Director: Shola Amoo Starring: Tanya Fear, Hussina Raja, Aki Omoshaybi Synopsis: An artist returns to her gentrified community where she explores her social position and complicity in the rapid changes. Why it’s a must-watch: I am obsessed with meta-film. The kind of work that lives at the edge of reality and is able to merge the real and the fake is what cinema is all about. It elevates watching film from a passive act to an engaging experience. This film about the gentrification of Brixton is one to look out for because it deals with such an interesting subject through an imaginative lens. Asinamali Director: Mbongeni Ngema Starring: Kevin White, Mbongeni Ngema Synopsis: Adapted from Mbongeni Ngema’s Broadway production of Asinamali. On the prison yard on Robben Island, a man named Nelson Mandela told Msizi Dube “Go and do it for all of us, for all our people. So one day we may join you in a free South Africa.” Why it’s a must-watch: Mbongeni Ngema is a great theatre-maker, I am keen to see how he adapts his own work for the big screen. I tend to not respond well to musicals. They have this habit of being unnecessarily over the top and generally smug in their happiness. So yes, hopefully this will be a musical exercise in bleakness. Catching Feelings Director: Kagiso Lediga Starring: Kagiso Lediga, Pearl Thusi, Andrew Buckland Synopsis: A dark romantic comedy which follows an urbane young academic and his beautiful wife, as their lives get turned upside down when a celebrated and hedonistic older writer moves into their Johannesburg home with them. Why It’s a must-watch: By far the film with the best title in the festival. It is written and directed by one of the funniest people in SA, Kagiso Lediga, and, from what I have seen, it has the potential to be a much more carefully rendered study of transactions of intimacy in an urban landscape than what we are used to on our screens. The Whale Caller Director: Zola Maseko Starring: Amrain Ismail-Essop, Sello Maake Ka-Ncube Synopsis: The Whale Caller is the story of a love triangle between the titular Whale Caller, his beloved whale Sharisha, and Saluni, the village drunk who teaches him to open his heart to people again. Why It’s a must-watch: Unfortunately we don’t have a good track record when it comes to adaptations of South African fiction for the big screen. But this adaptation of Zakes Mda’s work is enticing, not least of which, because it has been helmed by Zola Maseko. * The 38th Durban International Film Festival begins on Thursday, July 13 until Sunday, July 23. Films will be screened at various venues around and on the outskirts of the city.