Durban:  ANC Youth League in eThekwini has lashed out at former Lotus FM presenter Ravi Govender, saying the late night Vinyl Countdown host should be jailed. ANCYL regional spokesperson, Thulisa Ndlela, said Govender’s “Zombie Zuma” Facebook comment constituted a hateful personal attack that could incite conflict. “He’s not arrested? He belongs in jail,” Ndlela said. Govender was axed from the SABC after the posting on his personal Facebook account last weekend. “Just heard Zombie Zuma giving a speech on the news. Massacring the beautiful English language. Uneducated creature.” Ndlela said: “Everyone has a right to fair comment and to criticise the president’s speech, but don’t engage on the delivery because that is characterisation. “It’s a known fact that the president does not have a formal education, but there is no need to raise it constantly. What are you saying about those of us who are led by him and voted for him?” he asked. “If we don’t change the way we engage, we will be no different from countries locked in civil war. Govender’s comments are not representative of the Indian community.” The ANCYL's regional secretary, Thinta Cibane, said terminating Govender’s SABC contract was punishment enough. “We think it’s a sign that things are going in the right direction. It’s impractical for somebody to work at a state entity and use that (platform) to defame the government,” he said. Cibane said while the organisation subscribed to free speech, as entrenched in the constitution, it must come with responsibility. “We believe people in powerful or influential positions should behave responsibly.” Govender said he had apologised profusely on many platforms. “It was an error on my part and I take responsibility. I didn’t criticise the man, I criticised his delivery of the speech.” Govender has received threats, which he has been dealing with personally. He lamented the comments that had cause his family stress. His personality profile on the Lotus FM web page has been removed. “I lost my job. I’m paying for what I did,” he said. Asked about his future in the media, he said: “I don’t know, but if I could go back I would delete my Facebook account.” On Wednesday, the DA delivered a letter suggesting political interference in the matter. The DA's KwaZulu-Natal chairperson, Haniff Hoosen, said: “We understand the circumstances, but our main concern is who instructed the SABC to take action.” Hoosen said the DA had information that the instruction to fire Govender came from a politically-influenced higher authority. Attorney Tashya Giyapersad said a crimen injuria charge would be ineffective because the president was a public figure. “You lose some protection in the law when you take public office, so there is a thin line in terms of what can be said to be fair comment and in the public interest.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE