With these words, a Molweni resident tried to comfort partially paralysed Sheila Pilling, who had minutes earlier been thrown out of their hijacked vehicle. The New Germany domestic worker did not wish to be named or photographed, fearing her good actions may incur the wrath of the hijackers who are still at large. But today she will meet the Pilling family who want to convey their gratitude. Last Thursday, a massive search was launched for 87-year-old Sheila after the hijacking. She and her husband, John, had been in the driveway of their friend’s home in Sanders Road, New Germany, when five men confronted them. John had been at the back of the vehicle taking out a wheelchair for his wife when the men struck. He was shot in the jaw, and the hijackers drove off with Sheila. Their son, Adrian, flew in from Johannesburg and feared the worse for his disabled mum. “There were so many people involved in bringing this shocking story to a fairy-tale ending,” he said. A New Germany resident called The Independent on Saturday this week to say her domestic worker had been the first to run to Sheila’s aid. “Last Saturday, I asked her if she had heard about the incident, because the hijacking happened a few roads away, and she said ‘I know, I know’. “I asked her how she heard about it, and she told me that she had gone to help the lady on the road and gave her water to drink. She is an incredibly caring person, if someone needs help, she is always there,” the woman said. The Independent on Saturday put Adrian in touch with Sheila’s “Good Samaritan”, who are all expected to meet today. The “Good Samaritan” told the Independent on Saturday what had happened. “My family and I were sitting outside when we heard someone screaming for help. We saw some men holding a white lady near the road, then they dropped her and ran away so quickly in the car,” she said. The lady’s grandson ran towards Sheila, with his grandmother close behind. “I saw this lady on the ground screaming, I told my daughter to bring water for her. I told her she must not worry, we will help her, she was shaking so much. I asked her if she would drink water and she said no. Then a man pulled up in a van and called the ambulance because I had no airtime. “Last week when I went to work, my employer asked me if I had heard about the lady and I told her about what happened. When she brought the paper I told her it was the same woman. I am so happy she is okay now.” Sheila and John Pilling were both released from hospital earlier this week, and Adrian said they were doing fine. “We are determined to find the people involved in finding mum and bring closure to the incident and finish off this wonderful story of community co-operation and purpose. We are extremely grateful.” INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY