After its recent sell out run and almost a decade leaving audiences in stitches, Charous and Bruinous is back. The show which takes place on July 15, features some of South Africa’s most talented Indian and Coloured stand-up comedy acts will share the stage for a laugh-a-minute event of the year. The latest edition in the comedy series features Neville Pillay, Joey Rasdien, Annalakshmi, Neil Green and Masood Boomgaard. Neville Pillay needs no introduction to local audiences having garnered hundreds of thousands of fans through his radio stints and stage comedy across the country. Famous for his parody songs and amazing improvisational skills, Pillay has never met an audience he hasn’t been able to win over. Legend Joey Rasdien, is regarded as one of the very best in the comedy business, having appeared numerous in televised specials, TV  shows and movies. He regularly tours the country with his unique brand of high energy comedy. Another highlight of the show is the “singing chef”, viral video sensation Annalakshmi whose musical take on current affairs has won her hearts across the country. This singing desi girl offers razor sharp quips on the Guptas, Zuma and everything in between. Home grown joke masters, Neil Green and Masood Boomgaard complete the lineup. The show also promises to offer a truly South African experience as our comedians offer their unique insights into living as an Indian or Coloured in the Rainbow nation, tackle “chaarou and bruinou” stereotypes and narrate side splitting tales from the exotic lands such as Wentworth, Chatsworth, Phoenix, Sydenham and Newlands. There is also bruin-ou advice on surviving the recession, a guide to understanding lightning fast “chaarou” talk and tips on identifying different species of Indians and Coloureds. Charous and Bruinous is more than just a comedy show, it’s a cultural adventure. The show takes place at the Bat Centre on July 15 July at 8pm . Tickets are R120 and are available from Computicket and Checkers, or call 0846641015.