Chadleigh David, 26, died after a drive-by shooting in Bute Lane on Wednesday night. David, according to a source, had left home and was walking towards the road. “As he approached the car, shots rang out and David dropped to the ground. The car sped off,” the source claimed. David was rushed to hospital in a critical condition, having sustained at least eight gunshot wounds. He died in hospital. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said they were investigating a case of murder. Zwane said no arrests had been made. LISTEN His death comes a week after Llewellyn Edwards, 35, was shot and killed outside Lavo nightclub (formerly Hip Hop Palace) on the Bluff. It is alleged that a scuffle broke out and one of the men produced a firearm. Edwards was shot three times and died later in hospital. A close friend of David’s said she believed he was in the wrong place at the wrong time. “There were no previous attempts on David’s life. These shootings need to stop. In Wentworth, our young guys are leaving our children fatherless and our mothers without sons. He was not part of a gang. He was pulled into this by being in the wrong place at the wrong time,” said the friend. She is hoping for calm in the community. Echoing her sentiments was Tracy Williams, founder of the NPO Wentworth Angels. Williams, a leader in the community, said she strongly opposed the recent events. “Everyone is angry and they are reacting out of anger. These young men are being pushed by other friends, saying they will stand together, but I am pleading with them to come forward and let us help them. At the end of the day they are going to sit in jail. Yes, they did wrong, but these people have an opportunity to make things right,” she said. Williams said the recent attacks would have a negative impact on the progress made since the peace pact was signed last year between the Destroyers gang and their rivals, GSection. “It saw the gangs - with their history of shootings and murders - coming together to “quash the beef” and work together in the community. “Now, with these incidents, the 'eye-for-an-eye' mentality will come back. There will be no value for life. I do not think this is going to stop here. Whatever the reason is behind these incidents, it needs to stop. “It is a case of ‘I don’t care if I kill you’. David’s death happened because people were hurting from Sunday’s incident,” Williams said. Saddened Wentworth councillor Aubrey Snyman said he was saddened by David's and Edwards's deaths. “Both were young men, taken in the prime of their lives,” he said. He called on community members to remain calm and not to take matters into their own hands. “These things never find closure. With regard to the way it happens, there is never enough evidence to go by to apprehend the perpetrators. “Even the Bible says 'vengeance is the Lord’s'. It is sad to lose a loved one but going about it this way is totally wrong,” he said. Snyman visited the David family after the murder. “I am appealing to those affected by these shootings to contain themselves. They must understand that this behaviour is unacceptable, especially in the eyes of the community. We need to keep pushing on and maintain the peace in our community. “The way things are going, it is not going to solve the wrong. In fact, it will exacerbate the problem to a point where we will have families against each other,” he said. Zwane said a case of murder was opened at Brighton Beach police station after Edwards was killed. Two men, aged 20 and 45, were arrested and charged with murder. Zwane said both appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court this week and were expected back in court on July 11.  2016’s hail of bullets ■ November 2016: Brandon Morrison, 21, was shot when Ryan Isaacs, 35, allegedly began firing into a car parked in Silvertree Road. ■ September 2016: Trenton Lochenberg, Rodelle Sewell and Tiara Leiah were shot while seated in Lochenberg’s Golf in Alabama Road. They were allegedly shot by Kyle Hitler. ■ June 2016: Ten men opened fire in a block of flats in Retreat Street. No one was injured. ■ May 2016: Wentworth resident Kyle Morrow was shot dead after a fight outside a Florida Road restaurant. ■ March 2016: A seven-year-old boy was grazed by a bullet during a shooting in Major Calvert Street. A house in Austerville Drive was shot at and two men were shot in their legs.  Daily News