Durban: The mystery surrounding what the colour of magic was all about was unravelled at the Vodacom Durban July yesterday when models graced the race track in their fascinating hats, bright colours and bold accessories. This year s theme was open to interpretation, so the designers went out all out to reflect their idea of magic. To some it was black magic. To others it was unicorns, the colour red, the idea of an illusion and white magic with fairies and angels.&nbsp; Durban designer Terrence Bray, who was one of the fashion judges, said he was impressed with the designs and that the designers had reflected the theme well.&nbsp; There was so much that could be done with the theme so it was great to see the creativity and what people came up with.&nbsp; The turnout this year was also fantastic. It s good to see new designers showcasing. The fashion gets better and better every year at the event, he said. One young designer, Martin Steenkamp, who entered his designs and also modelled his own design, said he did extensive research into the colour of magic and found that the colour purple had magical properties.&nbsp; He then decided to create purple outfits to reflect his sense of the theme.&nbsp; Another designer, Yvonne Mokoatle, who was spotted wearing a unicorn-themed outfit in with pastel colours, said her idea of magic involved mystical creatures such as unicorns so she had decided to try something different. &nbsp; Other designers interpreted the theme as a kaleidoscope of bright colours, and reflected this in their hats and by combining a number of dazzling bright colours to reflect magic.&nbsp; Some decided not to stick to it at all.&nbsp; Instead, they showcased their idea of being fashionable.&nbsp; Accessories including hats, jewellery and unusual shoes also made for great eye candy.&nbsp; The winners for the best fashion designs were selected in several different categories.&nbsp; They included Classic Racewear Male and Female, Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator and Most Striking Couple.&nbsp; The event creates a platform for young designers to show off their talents in a fashion challenge and the young designer category.&nbsp; [email&#160;protected]&nbsp; &nbsp; The WINNERS&nbsp; Classic Racewear Male: Naseem Nazeer, worn by him.&nbsp; Classic Racewear Female: Prince Nsibande, model Zanele. Exceptional Raceday Hat or Fascinator: Zandile Maphumulo, model Nonhlanzeko. Most Striking Couple: Catharine Nolan, models Lunga and Kayla. Fashion Challenge: Tilone Viljoen, model Julia.&nbsp; Young Designer: Katekani Moreku , model Luvuyo. SUNDAY TRIBUNE