DURBAN: FASHION designers and stylists to Bollywood stars are preparing to showcase their talent on the Durban runway, at an exclusive event this month.
Haute Events, who will host the fashion show, is set to unveil the creations of 25 designers from India. The show will take place at the Square Boutique Hotel in uMhlanga, from July 28 to 30. Curated by celebrity stylist Eshaa Amiin, other well-known designers include Neeta Lulla, Pia Kataria Puri, Manish Arora, Aza, Gauri and Nainika, Malani Ramani, Rajat Tangri as well as Mayank Anand and Shraddha Nigam among others. The fashion show was conceptualised by Pietermaritzburg businesswoman Nafeesa Joosab, owner of the Haute Events brand, along with local celebrity fashion designer Haroun Hansrot and Durban businessman Faisal Supariwala. Hansrot said the aim of this show was to bring affordable international fashion to the people of Durban. The event would focus on unique fabrication, clothing for our warm climate and clothing that catered to all sizes and body types. Amiin, was the head stylist for Miss India and worked with A-list celebrities such as Karishma Kapoor, Lara Dutta, Sania Mirza, Sridevi, Saif Ali Khan, Akshay Kumar and Madhuri Dixit. Her work has been featured in popular international magazines, Filmfare and Forbes, not to mention countless Bollywood movies. Amiin said she was excited to showcase up-and-coming talent in the city of Durban. “It’s an exciting time for us. It’s our first venture into Africa and we will be bringing the best of India to South Africans, so we’re hoping for it to be a success. “The amount of preparation and planning has only created a more exciting build-up. My South African fans can expect nothing but the best Indian couture from fabulous designers,” said Amiin. The three-day programme includes a fashion show and VIP evening with leading designers on July 28. Tickets are R500, with a seat in the VIP section R900. Visitors will enjoy a special preview and late night shopping experience. A free two-day exhibit will follow on July 29 and 30. * Win a VIP fashion experience worth more than R4000! Two lucky readers will win a set of VIP double tickets to the show on July 28 and a style consultation with Amiin or Hansrot worth R2500. See entry details on the Sunday Tribune Facebook page. SUNDAY TRIBUNE