DURBAN: School s out and parents, police and experts fear some children will use the time to indulge in sex sessions at guest houses that offer low hourly rates. Instead of enjoying the innocence of youth, some children prefer to grow up too quickly , they claim. A first-year university student, who asked not to be named, lifted the lid on her sessions of passion with a partner during last year s school holidays at a well-known North Coast establishment. We didn t have sex out of &nbsp;boredom, but everyone was doing it, she said. The 20-year-old said this affected her work in matric as her focus shifted from schoolwork to the failed relationship. Looking back, I regret it because it wasn t only unsafe, I wasn t serious about my partner at the time, she said. The youngster said she frequented the particular guest house for her trysts after surfing the internet and seeing an advertisement that said it specialised in luxury adult accommodation . The manager of the establishment, who would not divulge his name, confirmed scholars tried to book at his lodge but were refused entry. We chase them; we don t let under-18s in, he said. SAPS spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane has urged pupils not to take part in unlawful activities during the school holiday and gave the assurance police would be on the lookout. We will beef-up security at beaches and other areas where people might engage unlawfully, he said. Durban North psychologist Rakhi Beekrum has been counselling young girls who &nbsp;engaged in sexual practices at a young age and had to deal with the fallout. I ve had patients who didn t realise they were being video-recorded, only to be blackmailed afterwards. She voiced concern about the self-esteem of sexually active teens. Other than unplanned pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases, guilt is a common emotional reaction as teens may experience trust issues and lack self-respect if the relationship ends. She said: Teenagers sometimes feel pressured to send provocative pictures, which may be circulated. Besides the psychological issue, it creates significant distrust between teens and their parents. Beekrum warned that those who engage in sexual activities while young were forced to grow up too fast .&nbsp; Vee Gani, the South Durban chairman of the KZN Parents Association, has advised parents to keep children occupied constructively. You will never get this time back, so use the holiday to ensure your child gets back on track, he said. Warning of kidnapping of teens, Gani said parents needed to remain a step ahead. Be a good role model and partner with the school. Or, if you are working, leave your child with a responsible adult. Ward 48 (Phoenix) Councillor Bradley Singh acknowledged many pupils thought they were adults, especially in school holidays. Slow down, enjoy being young because once school is over you face many responsibilities, he said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE