The sunshine and sandy beaches of uMhlanga is what keeps bringing South African comedy legend Joey Rasdien to KwaZulu Natal. It’s also an added bonus that Durban audiences seemingly can’t get enough of Rasdien’s crazy on stage antics. The big-haired star will be in town next weekend as part of the lineup for the “Charous and Bruinous” comedy show which takes place at the Bat Centre. It will be the first time Rasdien will appear in the long running series. Known for his spontaneous, often improvised, high energy style of comedy, Rasdien said that he is looking forward to stepping on stage, adding that audience members should be prepared for just about anything. “I don’t even know what I am going to be talking about,” the Johannesburg-based comic said. Knowledgeable on a wide variety of topics, Rasdien said that he stays relevant as a comedian by being an avid reader. His areas of expertise include politics and sport. While Rasdien often demonstrate a no holds barred approach to comedy, he believes that comedians should use their platforms responsibly. Rasdien has appeared on the biggest stages across the country and the world during an illustrious career that has spawned numerous solo shows including “Mixed DNA” and “Evolved.” He has also acted in movies such as Bunny Chow and Blitspatrolie. He was also a founding cast member of the famed Pure Monate Show. In August he will be filming a comedy special for M-net which will form part of the prestigious “Live” series, an event he is greatly looking forward to. Rasdien will no doubt be using the show in Durban as a testing ground for some of the material that will appear in the TV special. Appearing alongside Rasdien will be local comedy favourites Neville Pillay, Annalakhsmi, Neil Green and Masood Boomgaard. “It is truly exciting to have a legend like Joey Rasdien perform in Durban as part of the Charous and Bruinos comedy series which has been going on for close to ten years,” said Boomgaard. “Rasdien is greatly admired by Durban audiences and comedians and watching him in action is a real treat. There is so much young comedians here are able to learn from him.” Charous and Bruinous Comedy takes place at the Bat Centre on July 15 at 8pm. Tickets are R120 and are available from Computicket and Checkers. Call 0846641015 for more information.