Durban - In the wake of the Manchester bombing and a heightened global terror threat, Durban has emerged as a conduit for people trying to gain illegal entry into the US. In a counter-terrorism crackdown, 30 people have been arrested in the city by the Hawks Organised Crime Unit which is working alongside the local US embassy. Two of the arrests took place this week. US Embassy spokesperson Heidi Ramsay referred questions about the operation to the police. “Due to law enforcement sensitivities and privacy considerations, we are unable to provide any further information,” she said. Hawks KZN spokesperson Captain Simphiwe Mhlongo confirmed the 30 arrests and said more were imminent. “This operation is ongoing,” he said. All the suspects used counterfeit South African documentation to apply for US visas, apparently paying a local syndicate R25 000 to get them through the system. It is understood that Durban was red-flagged when there was a disproportionally high number of out-of-town applicants using the local visa and immigration office for their travel documentation. The latest arrests include a couple from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) who were nabbed outside the US Consulate in Durban on Wednesday. The couple, Morgan Biandosila, 40, and Belbiche Bitwadisi, 33, allegedly used their DRC passports and fake SA work permits to apply for US visas. They have been charged with fraud under the Immigration Act and will appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court for a plea bargain tomorrow. The other arrests, which have taken place over the past six months, included people from Pakistan, Nigeria, Cameroon, Bangladesh, India and China. Institute of Security Studies (ISS) counter-terrorism expert Martin Ewi said South Africa was “an attractive destination” for foreigners wanting entry to Europe, the UK and the US. “It boils down to the level of organised crime taking place in the country, corruption and loopholes in the system,” he said. This now posed a serious threat to national security as it had already been established that terrorists were using South Africa as a transit point. “South Africa is attractive when needing to gain entry into other countries because we have good relations with most countries compared to other African or Middle Eastern countries. We are viewed as safe and people get visas easily here. This means that people would rather try to gain entry from here than from their own countries,” said Ewi. Research had shown that some immigrants come to South Africa solely for the purpose of acquiring visas to other countries. Ewi applauded the Hawks for the arrests. In the past, South Africa unknowingly harboured terrorists, such as the White Widow, Samantha Lewthwaite, who used her local base to plan and execute terror attacks in other countries. “It was common knowledge that she used South Africa as a transit point. She even obtained an SA passport illegally. This also goes to show how corruption is thriving. In some cases, these syndicates are so sophisticated that they can even arrange the documentation back in the suspects’ home countries. All they have to do is come to South Africa and use the documentation to apply for their visas,” said Ewi. In a speech two weeks ago, State Security Minister David Mahlobo said the State Security Agency was working with collective law enforcement agencies on such issues.  nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za  Sunday Tribune