Gigwini – Political killings continue unabated in KwaZulu-Natal after another African National Congress (ANC) councillor was shot and killed at his home in Gigwini. Community Safety MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said on Wednesday that Mduduzi Wiseman Shibase, 39, also a school teacher, was the third ANC local leader murdered in the area this year. “His death came on the heels of that of former ward councillor Khayalihle Mngcwaba who was shot dead at his house in Machunwini area. The ANC also lost Khaya Thobela, Umzimkhulu council speaker and ANC deputy secretary in the Harry Gwala region who was shot while arriving at his home in Ward 13, Emfundweni area in April,” he said in a statement on Wednesday. KwaZulu-Natal bears the brunt of political killings especially this year, as the governing ANC gears for its elective conference in December. There have also been killings of members of other parties such as the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), the SA Communist Party (SACP) and the National Freedom Party (NFP) in the province. A commission of inquiry into the killing of politicians in KwaZulu-Natal, chaired by Advocate Marumo Moerane, was announced by provincial Premier Willies Mchunu in March. Vasu Gounden and Professor Cheryl Potgieter are commissioners and Solomuzi Mdledle is secretary of the commission. Lawyers Bheki Manyathi and Michelle Andile Ngqanda were appointed as evidence leaders. The commission, based in Mayville, started its work in March. At the time of the establishment of the commission, Mchunu said records showed that 12 members of the ANC, three members of the IFP, three members of the NFP and two SACP members had been murdered in recent months. Kaunda condemned the murder of elected public representatives. “This is shocking as it appears to be a concerted and systematic elimination of public servants. I have sharply raised this issue with the police management, we need to conduct a proper security threat analysis on people serving in the public office." “Police have been briefed to work around the clock to ensure that those responsible for this disgusting deed should be brought to book soonest.” African News Agency