DURBAN: DREAMING of becoming a truly great pianist, Chatsworth lad, Ethan Mackenzie took a step closer when he made the cut for the KZN Young Performers Concert that will happen at the Playhouse Drama Theatre on Saturday. The pianist outplayed other young hopefuls to land a slot in the musical production which will feature 15 of KZN’s most promising music talents and is supported by the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra. The concert is a collaboration between the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra and the South African Society of Music Teachers, which has been running for over a decade, and showcased the skills of young orchestral and vocal performers. The occasion will be the first time the 14-year-old Kharwastan Secondary School muso will perform with an orchestra, After a rigorous open audition process that took place last year, Mackenzie was among two pianists selected. He is currently attending MG Music School in Northdene, Queensburgh, where he is trained by music teacher, Melissa Greyvenstein. As the concert nears, Mackenzie said he had mixed emotions. “I am honoured for the opportunity to play alongside the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra because I’ve been eyeing an opportunity to play in a concert of this magnitude for over two years but I’m very nervous,” he confessed. He said that his interest in music began at the age of eight, when he began playing the piano after experiencing an emotional connection to the instrument, and music lessons followed. “I felt a wave of emotions come over me the very first time I played the piano and I enjoyed every minute of it,” he said. Mackenzie said he still experienced the same emotions each time his fingers caressed a keyboard, and he can’t wait to turn professional. Mackenzie explained that this took an huge amount of support from family and his unwavering dedication. “My parents motivate me every day to play to my potential and push past the obstacles at the same time.” Previously Mackenzie’s daily practice sessions would last 30 minutes. But he upped his efforts to longer daily sessions in preparation for the concert. Next on the radar for the youngster is making the grade to attend renowned music school, Trinity College in London, which could propel him towards an international music career. He also wants to inspire other children who have an inclination towards music. Tickets for the concert are available through Computicket at R40 for adults and R25 for pupils. SUNDAY TRIBUNE