Cape Town beauty Nicole Norman, 23, is a TV presenter, entrepreneur, fashion and beauty blogger and student. Norman co-hosts the SABC3 youth tech show Exfrontiers, is a fashion correspondent for Spice TV Africa and recently hosted the red carpet at the Bokeh Fashion Film Festival in Cape Town. “I think I am naturally quite ambitious,” she says. “These days, as my career grows in leaps at a time, I think that building momentum keeps me excited about the projects I’m involved in. “Having big dreams, and visualising that reality and what achieving them would feel like, keeps me going.” At 19, Norman launched her own clothing line. “I’ve always loved fashion. Some of my most vivid childhood memories are of my younger sister and me being dressed in the most beautiful matching Sunday-school dresses. “I remember wanting to have a say in what I was going to wear from very early on. Fashion and style seem like second nature now. “I watched a lot of Fashion TV and got involved in pageants and runways modelling. This developed into becoming interested in the conceptualisation and creation of a clothing collection. “I attended fashion school in Cape Town then launched my clothing line sold at boutiques around the city.” says Norman. She has had to put the label on hold for now while she’s back to university, but it’s a project she intends revisiting once she’s graduated. Norman is passionate about South African designers and supporting local talent. “Some of my favourite local designers are Rich Mnisi, Thebe Magugu and Celeste Arendse from Selfi, who recently dressed me at the Bokeh Red Carpet event. “The highlight of the evening for me was interviewing individuals who I look up to within the industry.” With regard to her personal style, Norman says: “I am still figuring out my style but there is something edgy about the way I dress. I like to look and feel put together, yet cool.”  Her style advice to young adults: “Confidence is important in so many spheres of life. You don’t have to follow all the trends, rather wear what makes you feel good and you will emit that energy and vibe.” Norman made her television debut as the co-presenter on Exfrontiers on SABC3. “I sent in my audition tape the same way everyone else did! I do believe that there was some divine planning that led to landing the gig, and I’m so grateful . I learnt so much about presenting and what goes into creating a TV production.”  As to her beauty routine: “Because I run a fashion, beauty and lifestyle blog, I’m constantly creating beauty content for the site. This means I get to try out products. “I get sent quite a lot of make-up, but I think skincare is even more important. “My routine is always changing, but I make sure to always thoroughly remove my make-up and cleanse my skin. I also try to incorporate sunscreen in my daily routine and drink lots of water – it really works.” Norman at the UCT studying media, writing and English literature to help her “understand the formalities behind the industry, especially in the media space”. How does a such a young person juggle so many things? “It comes down to just doing what you want to do. I’ve never let anything hold me back, because there will always be something you can latch on to as an excuse to get out of pursuing what you want to do.” Her dream goal for 2017 is to graduate. “Long term, I’m going to be growing my personal brand, the online presence of my website and the brand as a whole”. To keep up with rising star check out her blog at www.normadiconline.com 