The Joburg-based athletes will complete their 900km feat by running the official Comrades, from Durban to Pietermaritzburg, on June 4. The aim is to raise funds for Underdogs SA, a Pretoria-based non-profit organisation which is involved in the rescue, rehabilitation and re-homing of abused and unwanted pit bulls. “A friend told me if one feels blessed, one should pass those blessings on. That is why I started using ultra-distance running to raise money and awareness for animal rescue centres. In 2013 I did my first fund-raiser for domestic animal rescue and shelters. I ran 322km in 42 hours. Toughest thing I have ever done, but I only raised R33000,” said Moller. After seeing the potential she officially founded the Ten10 campaign in 2014 and has only completed the challenge once due to ill health and injuries she suffered on the road during her other attempts. “In 2014 I was so involved with planning that by day six I had a stomach ulcer and had to stop so I could run the actual Comrades three days later. Last year I jumped off the road on day four to avoid being hit by a vehicle and tore the fascia in my lower leg,” she explained. They are both avid runners and Moller’s background includes breaking the South African 24-hour endurance record by doing 190.4km around a 400m track in Pietermaritzburg in 2014. She is also the first person to do a double Washie 100-miler, running 322km in 2013. Former soccer player, Makobane has numerous marathons under his belt, including three Comrades.  Talking about the preparations for such a tough feat ,Moller said it went beyond just physical fitness. “I like to go into the event knowing I am physically as prepared as possible. So it means doing double, if not triple, the mileage most Comrades runners run from January to June. Mentally, I keep reminding myself why I am doing it, and that so many animals suffer a lifetime, not just for 10 days,” she added. This sentiment was also echoed by Makobane who said his first attempt last year failed because he was not mentally prepared for it. “When you take on a gruelling challenge it’s a given that your body will take a beating, but it will only give up when your mental side gives up so you have to train your brain to push even in the toughest conditions,” he explained. He said they hoped to raise R300 000 which will include the value of all the pet food people are donating towards the course. “I’m confident we will finish the nine races before the Comrades but I’m a bit anxious about the Comrades itself because this will be my first up-run I hope to do well because I’m better with up-hills,” said the father of two. The pair will kick off their journey on Friday at Thaba Tshwane in Pretoria and conclude it in Pietermaritzburg on June 4. They urge fellow runners and community members to join them for a stretch when they come to their areas.  For more information, e-mail Ten10comrades@webmail.co.za  Follow @nyntuli on Twitter SUNDAY TRIBUNE