DURBAN: A MOVING poem and a prayer for strength is what the children of Esselen Heights Primary School have offered the still grieving family of Rinaldo Elijah Kubair. Grade 2 pupils and staff at the school in Phoenix are still struggling to accept the the tragic death of their classmate. Tomorrow marks two weeks since the 7-year-old was strangled, allegedly by his father, Pravin Kubair, 29, in revenge over a domestic dispute. SAPS spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said police found the suspect roaming the streets of Caneside in the early hours of the morning. He had been carrying the child’s lifeless body, followed by a 4-year-old girl, who allegedly witnessed the murder of her brother. Kubair was arrested. On Friday, pupils and staff of the school were in a solemn mood as they gathered for a memorial in honour of Rinaldo, who stole their hearts with his jovial spirit. His teacher, SD Maharaj, described him as a joyful, bright pupil and said she could not believe he was no longer with them. She recalled: “It was on the Friday before his death that I noticed how beautiful his handwriting was, and I told him to try and finish his work before the weekend, and he said ‘yes ma’am’. That’s the last time I saw him. “The kids are traumatised because they’ve come to learn about the death of their friend, and they’re used to knowing that a parent is a person who would protect them,” Maharaj said. She said it was tragic when supposed pillars of protection were harming young people. In 2015, a 3-year-old girl dubbed “Baby X” by the media died in Chatsworth following years of torture, allegedly by her mother and grandmother. In the same year, 9-year-old Shahiel Sewpujun was murdered by his aunt and grandmother in Phoenix. Esselen Heights Primary School principal, Vicky Naidoo, said a small amount of money had been collected to hand over to Elijah’sRinaldo’s family members as a token of assistance. Kubair’s bail application has been set for June 8 at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. SUNDAY TRIBUNE