DURBAN – First Lady Tobeka Madiba-Zuma has urged mothers across the country to extend their love and support beyond their biological children for the sake of future generations. She was speaking on the sidelines of her foundation’s Listen to a Girl Child Campaign event, which was attended by more than 300 teenage girls at the KwaMashu community hall yesterday. The event was aimed at giving a platform to teenage girls to talk about the issues that affect them, such as peer pressure and teen pregnancy. “It really takes a village to raise a child and we all have a meaningful role to play in the lives of our children. It cannot be that a mother turns a blind eye when she sees her neighbours’ children suffering,” she said. Madiba-Zuma said parents, especially mothers, should make time to listen to their children so that they can open up about the challenges they are facing and not end up getting advice from their friends. “We are unfortunately living in a society where some parents have shifted the responsibility of raising their children to the teachers, and in some instances a child ends up having no one to talk to. “It is our responsibility to empower them and help them make the right decisions and stand up for themselves,” said the mother of three. She said there was nothing more fulfilling than being a mother, but said it also came with challenges, like having to answer tough questions. “Recently my 9-year-old daughter asked me about the right time to start dating. Understanding the challenges that our children deal with today, I decided to take that opportunity to start a dialogue, so that in the future she is able to come to me when she has questions,” she added. Today she will be spending Mother’s Day with her mother, Nomfanelo Mabhija. “I know that I would not be where I am today without her and the other women I look up to. I have a lovely surprise planned for her,” she said. She told the girls they should study hard so they can become financially independent. “Work hard so you can achieve your dreams and if you lose your way and make a mistake, that’s not the end of the world. Pick yourself up and start again – it’s never too late,” she said.  nokuthula.ntuli@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE