Durban - Drug addicts, in the hunt for their next fix are snatching the expensive wigs off the heads of unsuspecting women in city centres across the country.  In the past few weeks, there has been a rise in the  number of women taking to social media to complain about either falling victim to addicts snatching their wigs off their heads, or witnessing someone being robbed of their wig.  The victims believe the theft is the result of rampant whoonga abuse and the addicts it creates who would do anything for a hit.  So rampant has the practice become that some women tweeted their experience to new Police Minister, Fikile Mbalula. The incident was widely mentioned in Johannesburg, with Bara Taxi Rank having a number of incidents. Now it seems to have made its way down to Durban. The rampant wig theft was highlighted in Zulu newspaper, Isolezwe with many of their readers either finding it very funny sympathising with the victims.  Women spend thousands of Rands on these wigs and a few hundreds to have them installed. More and more, hairdressers and customers talk about these incidents. Hairdressers have said that customers frequently walk in with cornrows and ask for help after addicts have snatched their weaves. In Durban, this has happened mainly on Joe Slovo Street (Field Street) and the Market (along Warwick Avenue). Reports suggest that addicts sell these wigs at a cheaper price, so they can get money in order to get high.  A Facebook post, which has since been removed, read: ATTENTION LADIES!!!...  Addicts have reached a new level. What I saw today at the market is scary. Addicts don’t stop at taking your wig. A lady was held at knife point by an addict, while the other undid her wig, so be careful ladies. (translation) These incidents have become very common that a Tweep recently alerted the Minister of Police, Fikile Mbalula: Please minister apparently our snatched wigs are being used by nyaope boys to get high. Wig safety is a part of community safety!! https://t.co/KeazzblciN — Kat - Leg - Ooooh 🍒 (@JustKatlee) May 8, 2017  To which Mbalula replied: I'm told by tweeps this morning that now nyaope addicts snatched their weaves. I'm shooketh at this - it's a new development. — RSA Min of Police (@MbalulaFikile) May 8, 2017  Hoping these aren't Bra Hugh Masekela's prayers being answered — RSA Min of Police (@MbalulaFikile) May 8, 2017  For now, some women have resorted to placing a scarf  over their heads, as a deterrent to addicts, while others have decided to leave the wig at home until these incidents die down.