DURBAN – FROM a township scrapyard nearly a decade ago to hosting some of uMlazi’s biggest shisa nyama parties, Eyadini Lounge has come of age. It will join 30 other marquees at the Durban July this year with patrons paying about R30 000 for a group of 10 VVIP passes. Eyadini owner Jabulani Zama said the marquee would be named the Eyadini Village, a departure from the uMlazi Lounge. Zama, who is known as Jiggamoney, said he saw South Africa’s premier horse-racing event as a great marketing platform. “Customers come from all over the country to support Eyadini,” he said. “They have asked for a marquee at the July and I decided to listen." VVIP tickets for the marquee cost R30 000 for a group of 10, covering premium drinks, a buffet, private lounge, private waiter and the best views of the main stage. VIP tickets are selling at R2 000 each and also come with a private lounge and food, while general tickets cost R550. Marco Quattrocchi of Quattro Events, who is co-ordinating the Eyadini Village, said leisure and entertainment would be different from the uMlazi set-up. There would be no shisa nyama because of the safety risk of open fires. The popular Jack Daniels Boomtown marquee will also be back at the July, hosted by Bonang Matheba. Event organiser Glynnis Lategan said the marquee would be back for the ninth time, to meet demand. There would be live performances from AKA, Nasty C, Sketchy Bongo and Shekhinah. Platinum tickets cost R5 900 and general tickets R605, with VIP specials varying between R1 920 and R3 990. The Mabala Noise Entertainment marquee of ANC Youth League treasurer Reggie Nkabinde is to host international hip-hop artist Tory Lanez, who will perform LUV and Say It, among other hits. Tickets are R50 00 each at this tent. DJ Tira will also pop up his Afrotainment marquee with headliners such as the BET music awards-nominated queen of Gqom, Babes Wodumo. The fully air-conditioned marquee will accommodate 700 guests. VIP tickets cost R41 000 for a group of 10 and R2​ 000 each for general. Last year, R127 million was wagered on the day, but the bets were off on beating that figure this year. SUNDAY TRIBUNE