DURBAN - The EFF has threatened mass action at Maritzburg College if the school refuses to drop charges against two pupils who brandished a political tee on Friday. “We demand that they drop their reactionary and unconstitutional charges with immediate effect or face the full might of our mass power,” said spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. The red berets declared “unconditional support” for the pupils who have been charged by their school for brandishing political slogans at school. The Pietermaritzburg public school made headlines when three pupils went viral in a picture with the slogans "EFF our last hopes of getting the land back" and "loading 2019". The T-shirts were brandished at the school on the last day of school for the matric class of 2017 before final exams commence next week. The Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal has also announced that it is investigating allegations of racism at the school as part of a full scale investigation at the school. “We have received a number of allegations relating to racism which could be a reason for learners to retaliate in a certain manner. We want the investigating team to look at the circumstances that led to the alleged developments and the manner in which the school management team has handled such matters,” he said. “The department is also aware that there are some who are now using this sensitive matter for political gains,” said Mthethwa. Ndlozi defended the pupils and said they had a freedom of expression. “The black child has a freedom to express their thoughts anywhere in this county without any fear or favour. This freedom… has long been paid with blood over centuries of our liberation struggle. The school must drop the charges and allow the young people to focus on their exams without any disciplinary hearing hanging over their heads,” he said. Ndlozi said the two boys were academically excellent. “These two fighters are academically excellent students who are in their matric year. In fact, they will start to write their matric exams next week. The school has charged them, threatening them with expulsion for declaring that EFF is their last hope for the return of the land,” he said. Maritzburg College confirmed to the Sunday Tribune through lawyer Jaco van der Merwe that they had charged the two boys as they had contravened the South African School Act, the school’s code of conduct and social media policy. Ndlozi rejected the charges, referring to them as “pure apartheid” and “colonial thinking”. “In our democracy, there is no bylaw, rule or school code of conduct that must be inconsistent with our supreme law of the land; the constitution. Maritzburg College, by charging our young fighters, is in direct violation of the constitution. It is offending their rights to freedom of expression. “The young men have not killed anyone, stolen anything or caused any physical harm. They have simply expressed an idea and by suppressing them, the school is not only anti-intellectual but also scared of the truth. “By charging them, the school is seeking to guarantee protection to the reactionary and anti-black racists who refuse to see blacks as equals and as rightful owners of the land. The school is dancing to white supremacist tunes, thus reproducing itself as hostile to our democratic order,” said Ndlozi. 