UberEATS is an online meal ordering and delivery service powered by Uber. It partners with the best local restaurants in dozens of cities around the world to get people the food they want delivered faster. The service operates in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Pretoria and Stellenbosch, where it has proved popular. UberEATS, which was launched in South Africa, earlier this year, has finally added Durban to it’s list. It was launched this week at the Botanical Gardens. In Durban, the app works in the CBD, Durban North, uMhlanga, Morningside 
and the Ballito areas, and the restaurants include: RocoMama’s, Afro’s Chicken, Bombay Blu, Pop-Up Society, Spiga D’Oro,  Silverani’s, McDonalds, Kauai and KFC. “Durbanites love food so we are excited to expand to the city as we know they have been waiting in anticipation. “We look forward to making life more tasty, accessible 
and more convenient,” said 
the general manager for UberEATS Middle East and Africa, Nic Robertson. “The app gives diners access to whatever they like with benefits of customised orders. From sushi to doughnuts or burgers, we’ve got more than 69 cuisines customers can choose from across Durban, Gauteng and Cape Town. “Restaurants can tap into the UberEATS delivery network to expand their businesses and reach a new network of customers. “Delivery partners have access to even more flexible earning opportunities.” But what about restaurants with existing delivery services? Speaking to managers of some of Durban’s restaurants 
and fast food outlets and asking if they will be joining UberEATS, a Debonairs manager said it would not be joining as it is fully covered and satisfied with the delivery system it is using. Nando’s manager Jared Neil said it would also not be joining UberEATS as it saw  no use of it because Nando’s already uses another popular food service, Mr Delivery. UberEATS says it delivers across 1 422km2, has more than 35 000 different items to choose from, and takes an average delivery time of 33 minutes. First time users around Durban can use the code “HELLODURBS” to enjoy free delivery for three orders, valid for two weeks. SUNDAY TRIBUNE