A person could easily tap the cosmic energy through fervent  prayer and rituals, during such occasions, which include Hanuman Jayanti, Navarathri, Janmashtami, Sharad Purnima, Diwali, Shivarathri and Holi. During Diwali, Sharad Purnima and Navarathri devotees have great opportunities to easily please Mother Lakshmi. Diwali is a five-day festival, especially in India, with the first three days being crucial for pleasing the Goddess Lakshmi. On the first evening of Dhanteras (October 17), light 11 diyas (clay lamps) to invite Mother Lakshmi. It is regarded as the best time to buy gold or silver pieces since buying metal on this day is believed to increase your wealth throughout the year. It is also appropriate on these evenings to light a large diya with four wicks that point in four directions, and put them at your front door. Roop Chaudas is the second day, commonly referred to as Choti Diwali (October 18). Light 21 diyas for this day. “Roop” means beauty, while “Chaudas” is the date, the 14th (according to the Hindu calendar). On the day before Diwali, you should wake up an hour before sunrise, while the stars are still out, and have a bath. Once dressed, you should gaze at the stars for a minute. While doing this, you must feel the positive energy from the universe surging through, which will keep you healthy and beautiful. This will also ensure the skin glows throughout the year. The demon Narakasura was slain by Lord Krishna and Satyabhama. It is also referred to as Narak-Chaturdoshi and it is appropriate to worship Lord Krishna at this time. The powerful demon Raktabija was slain by the Goddess Kali, also known as Kali-Chaturdoshi, and the Goddess Kali must be worshipped. The third evening of Diwali , October 19, is the most powerful and holy night of the year and one on which Maha Lakshmi can easily be pleased. Add more diyas on this night. If you can afford to put out 51 diyas in total on this night, then you should do so. Chant “Shreem” (pronounced Shree-m) 108 to 1080 times. While chanting, concentrate on a picture of Mother Lakshmi on a lotus flower, two elephants with raised trunks on either side of her. The fourth day of the Diwali celebration is Govardhan Pooja, which falls on October 20. This prayer is performed by making a mound called Govardhan Parbat, using cow dung. Early on that morning, it is usually placed at the entrance of the front gate to the home, where it is worshipped through the day. October 21 is known as Bhai Dooj, the last and final day of the Diwali festival. On this day, sisters show their love and appreciation for brothers by putting a tilak or vermillion mark on the forehead of their brothers. In India, many legends form the backbone of the festival. Diwali also presents a great opportunity for parents to expose the younger generation to the values of Indian festivals. A person should perform the Lakshmi-Poojan prayer during this holy period to gain maximum benefits from pleasing Maha Lakshmi, who will shower you and your family with wealth and prosperity. The  most appropriate time to conduct this prayer is between 6.04pm and 8.18pm. If you are unable to honour this recommended period for prayer, remember that the entire day is holy and appropriate for poojas. I wish you and your family a happy  and prosperous Diwali. * Mahesh Bang is an astrologer, numerologist, palmist, vastu and feng shui expert. He writes a weekly column in the Sunday Tribune Herald. ** The views expressed here are not necessarily those of Independent Media.