DURBAN - Football fans - among them supporters of the Orlando Pirates - are expected to attend a weekend prayer at Senzo Meyiwa's uMlazi home which starts on Friday until Sunday. The three-day prayer meeting will be held at the home of the former Bafana Bafana goalkeeper and captain, who was killed on this day three years ago by unknown gunmen. Senzo was shot at Kelly Khumalo's house in Vosloorus. He was dating the musician at the time. He was also traditionally married to Mandisa Mkhize, who will be part of the prayer, father Sam Meyiwa revealed. Sam Meyiwa said on Thursday that he had invited Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to attend the prayer. Meyiwa Sr recently doorstopped Mbalula during a visit the minister made at the Glebelands Hostel in uMlazi. “I met with Mbalula during his visit at Glebelands men’s hostel to plead with him to speed up the investigation and arrest the killers. I also invited him to join the family for my son’s prayer. Although he did not commit himself, I expect him to come because when he was the Sports Minister he spoke highly of Senzo,” Meyiwa Sr said. Mbalula’s spokesperson Esethu Hasane could not confirm if Mbalula would attend. “I have not seen the minister’s diary for the weekend but please call later so I could confirm his attendance,” he said. Meyiwa Sr told the Sunday Tribune that his congregation, the Holy Apostolic Church had organised the prayer. The congregation will be leading the prayer for Senzo killers to be finally arrested. “We will also pray for his spirit to rest in peace, but moreover for his killers to be arrested so that the family could move on after the motive for his death has been uncovered,” said Meyiwa Sr. Meyiwa Sr said his son’s wife Mandisa Mkhize and children were expected to come, but Kelly had not been invited. “Kelly and I are not on good terms. I could not invite her and how dare you to ask that question?,” Meyiwa lamented. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said the investigation into Senzo's killing was still continuing. Meyiwa was killed when two gunmen allegedly entered the house and demanded cell phones, money, and valuables. Kelly, her sister Zandi, her mother Ntombi, Longwe Twala - the son of music producer Chicco Twala and Meyiwa's friends Tumelo Madlala and Mthokozisi Twala. Will the police ever crack the Senzo Meyiwa case?  * Tweet us @SundayTribuneSA   * Post on Facebook: Sunday Tribune  SUNDAY TRIBUNE