Durban - The secret is out, Kyle Deutsch and Kelly Khumalo are not an item, instead, the pair have been cooking up a new love song. The song, titled Lonely Fool, will put to bed suspicions over the duo’s supposed relationship. Durban singer Kyle Deutsch said he had been asked countless times about their relationship. “I never respond to rumours. Perhaps people judged our relationship from Instagram photos. We are all about music and Kelly is such a good friend of mine,” said Deutsch. The new track was released on all digital platforms including iTunes this week. “The track is produced by Sketchy Bongo. It’s a house, groove, dance and fun song about love. It is easy to write and sing about love because it’s a common topic. Kelly and I shared a unique chemistry from the first time we met,” he said, adding that they met last year at the Sama award nominees party. “She has an interesting personality and is very talented musically,” said Deutsch.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. It’s not surprising that Khumalo has once again featured in a love song, after all she has always spoken out about her love for love. I have a weakness for love, I love love and that’s me. Anything with love musically, I am there. “This is a very interesting track with such a powerful message about two people in love, but everything happens so fast,” said Kelly. “I have known Kyle for months and he has been a good friend of mine since then. “I never talk to people I do not know from the first time we meet but with Kyle we clicked from the outset,” said Khumalo. Although Deutsch doesn’t have an album of his own yet he has had hit songs including Can’t Get Enough and Back to the Beach where he was featured by local girl Shekhinah. Deutsch is a man of many talents having played football before he got severely injured and is a chiropractor by profession. His practice is in Durban. “My dad used to collect (vinyl) records, we always had music in the house. After I had finished my studies, I had to start my own practice so I can be able to do other things, so that’s how I am able to juggle my work with music.” The duo said the new song was about a couple who were in love but felt their fling was too good to be true. They said the couple are so in love they doubt their feelings are genuine.