DURBAN - South Coast beauty Tarusha Gounder, 19, is a huge cricket fan and loves spending time with senior citizens. Having been named as a finalist in the Miss Teen Commonwealth SA, which will see the Grande Finale taking place in Johannesburg in February, Gounder said beauty titles were no longer just about looks but also confidence, personality and being active within the community. From Port Shepstone, she already has a number of local titles under her well-groomed belt, including Miss Teen Hibiscus in 2014 and Miss Ugu 2015. Currently in her second year B.Com Marketing, Gounder said: “I started modelling from the age of five and this will be my second national pageant but I also consider myself to be very business-oriented and I would love being in a fast-paced job. When it comes to competitions, I do get nervous but I always listen to the questions carefully and I keep up to date on all current affairs. It also provides a platform for teens to learn about leadership and public speaking.” Describing herself as an adrenaline junkie, Gounder said she enjoyed a challenge. “I love extreme outdoor activities. I have done some zip-lining and I would like to do bungee jumping.” Another favourite pastime is cricket. “I am a big Proteas fan, particularly of Hashim Amla and AB de Villiers. I love watching cricket but I also play cricket,” she said. She also enjoys spending time with senior citizens and supports a care centre for elderly people, as well as Meals On Wheels which provides meals for the elderly and vulnerable. Her exercise regime includes jogging and volleyball, while her top beauty tip is her own facial scrub made from turmeric and honey with a little added lemon juice which she uses every second night. Using a good sun block is her second tip. And her pet hate? “Dishonesty. I'm an open-minded individual and I value honesty, loyalty and trustworthiness,” she said. Gounder is one of 19 finalists in the Miss Teen Commonwealth SA pageant. It is hosted by Through The Commonwealth Pageants and the titleholders are expected to be ambassadors for charity and culture within SA and the broader international community. SUNDAY TRIBUNE