TUESDAY axing of Blade Nzimande as the higher education minister means the Tthree politicians who arguably made the most noise to secure President Jacob Zuma’s campaign to Luthuli House, have all been dismissed. These men are former ANC Youth League president Julius Malema, former Cosatu secretary-general Zwelinzima Vavi and the latest casualty, the SACP's Nzimande. About 10 years ago, at the height of the Zuma storm, all three men were strong backers of Zuma and helped him win the Polokwane Conference in 2007, defeating Thabo Mbeki. MALEMA In February 2012, Malema was the first to go when he was expelled from the ANC after he was found guilty of misconduct. He was found guilty of portraying Zuma and the ANC in negative light in relation to the African agenda. Malema had vowed he would die for Zuma and called for charges against him to be dropped. "We are prepared to die for Zuma," Malema told a Free State rally. "We are prepared to take up arms and kill for Zuma," he said, 9 years ago. At the same rally, he said at the time corruption charges against Zuma should be dropped. “The future belongs to us. We do not want a situation where the state prosecutes its own president," Malema said. These days, Malema, now the leader of the third biggest political party in South Africa - the EFF, is now a big critic of the president. As Malema and Zuma's relationship began to wane, the former youth league president made many pronouncements that appeared to be aimed at Zuma. In 2010, he called raised the ire when he called for "one man, one wife" and said leaders should be responsible. This is what Malema had to say about Zuma today: "We reject the reshuffle of the national executive because it does not include the criminal suspect Jacob Zuma,” said Malema. WHEN WE WERE FRIENDS: Julius Malema and Jacob Zuma at the Gallagher Estate in Midrand. Picture: Bongiwe Mchunu The SACP’s long serving general secretary, Nzimande, was another one of those who was an ardent supporter of Zuma during the ‘Mbeki out’ era. During Zuma's 2006 rape trial in Pietermaritzburg, Nzimande lambasted those who criticised him and Cosatu for supporting for Zuma. "If we let anyone's rights to be abused, then workers and the poor's right would also be abused." "State institutions were abused in the Zuma issue. Then who are we if Zuma's rights can be abused? ... No one will stop us in ensuring that we reclaim what is ours". In 2012, post-Mangaung, Nzimande in an interview with Independent Media, defended Zuma and said there was baseless hatred for the man. “There is this hatred for the president, especially by sections of the elite, including elites in the media… For them, it’s not that the barbarian is at the gate but that the barbarian is inside the gate.” He said the media was not objective in its criticism of Zuma and his administration, adding that some sections of the media had done a disservice to the public in terms of information provided. And then in 2014, Nzimande said stories about Zuma’s R200m home in Nkandla were “white people’s lies” at the University of Zululand. Nzimande dismissed reports about the Nkandla homestead and Zuma as "lies perpetuated by white people". These days, Nzimande feels betrayed by Zuma and his administration.   "You must not expect people not to respond to what you say... because when you are lying, you are lying." These days, Vavi lashes Zuma where possible.  GOOD TIMES: Then Cosatu secretary general Zwelinzima Vavi and President Jacob Zuma. File: GCIS SUNDAY TRIBUNE