Fed-up neighbours have complained that the 15-bedroom house, which is believed to be one of the oldest buildings on Peter Mokaba (formerly Ridge) Road, is infested with pests and rodents. Apart from the perceived health hazards, neighbours claimed they were living in fear because of the drunken brawls, prostitution and drug usage that was commonplace at the double-storey house. Neighbours, who asked not to be named, fearing reprisal, said the building belonged to property mogul Salim Munshi, who sublet the house to Lynne Naidoo. The neighbours alleged that Naidoo had subsequently turned slumlord when she allowed overcrowding at the building. During an interview with the Sunday Tribune, Munshi said he had learnt only recently about the condition of the house, as he lived in the Eastern Cape and had sublet the house. He added that the lease agreement with Naidoo ended in November and he planned to either demolish or renovate the house. Naidoo insisted that she was the rightful owner of the house, having bought it two years ago. However, she denied allegations of being a slumlord and said she inherited the house in a “state of disrepair”. However, a property deeds search conducted by the Sunday Tribune revealed that the house was owned by a company belonging to Munshi. While Munshi and Naidoo put forward their respective claims of ownership of the house, tenants and neighbours continued to endure the hazards and discomfort generated by residents of the building. “It is overcrowded, filthy, and the toilets don’t work. Prostitution and drug dealing are also happening there,” claimed a neighbour, who asked not to be named. “We’ve complained to the slumlord (Naidoo) and the city about the problems. “An environmental health specialist visited the house and fines were then issued, but nothing else happened,” said the neighbour, who also worried that the building was affecting their property values. “There are known thugs living there and we fear for our safety. “Once there were about 65 refuse bags on the pavement, which showed the number of people living there,” said another neighbour. A tenant living in the building, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said she paid a monthly rental of R2 500, and complained about the building’s state. “There’s overcrowding here and I think a total of 94 people are living in this building. “Bathrooms are filthy and the toilets are out of order. We use the toilets at a local shopping mall. “The building has electrical problems and the main entrance gate is permanently open. “The slumlord threatened to evict anyone who complained. “She (Naidoo) is exploiting the fact that the majority of people 
living here are students,” said the tenant. Naidoo said: “I fell into a trap when I bought the building. I am the person who called the environmental specialists with the intention to sort the building’s problems. “I could not renovate the house because it is declared an Amafa (heritage) site, but I have made an application to demolish it. I have plans to turn it into a beauty spa.” Naidoo denied there were prostitutes, drug dealing or overcrowding at the house. She said 10 single people and five couples, including four children, occupied the 15-bedroom house, and their rentals varied from R1 000 upwards. Naidoo dismissed the result of the property deed search and said ownership of the house had not yet been transferred into her name. Naidoo insisted: “It’s my house. I fell into a trap when I bought it with all its problems, but I am not a slumlord.” Munshi said he was angry and disappointed with Naidoo when he found out about the state of the house. “The lease with Naidoo has expired. I have told her I want my house in November because I want to renovate or demolish it, provided Amafa (the provincial heritage agency) approves my application. “She has not been paying her rent of R15000 per month. She has made excuses that tenants haven’t paid her. I told her that was not my problem,” said Munshi. Amafa confirmed the application to have the house demolished but said it had not processed the request yet. “The property at Ridge Road is a listed heritage site and as such is protected from any alteration, addition or demolition, except under a permit from Amafa and through special consent from eThekwini town planning department,” said Ros Devereux, head of the city’s built environment section. eThekwini communications head Tozi Mthethwa said the property was a private property. “Therefore the onus lies with the property owner to protect their property or surrender it to council should they find it difficult to maintain and/or protect. The municipality doesn’t have the power to act in the absence of an official letter, preferably endorsed by a court, asking the city to intervene.”  siphelele.buthelezi@inl.co.za  SUNDAY TRIBUNE