DURBAN - THERE has been a sudden flurry of snake activity this week, with people and animals being  bitten. Snake catcher Jason Arnold said such activity typically increased about 24 hours ahead of a cold front or heavy rain as the serpents sought shelter. Immediately after the rain, they moved outside to warm up and catch prey, such as frogs. Arnold said he had been called by a Westville doctor whose patient had been bitten by a night adder. He had also dealt with cases of dogs being bitten by a night adder and a boomslang. While the dog bitten by the night adder on the South Coast responded well to treatment, Arnold said the owner of two dogs bitten by a large boomslang in Mount Moreland had an anxious 24 hours. “The owner saw the snake taking several strikes at the dogs during the time it took for him to catch up and stop it. After I had identified it as a highly venomous boomslang, he feared the worst.” Fortunately, the snake had not managed to latch on long enough to deliver venom. “The 24 hours that followed were incredibly stressful for the owner of the dogs because this is the amount of time that needs to pass without the dogs showing any signs of venom before they can be given the all clear. Both dogs, fortunately, got off scot-free in this incident,” said Arnold. He cautioned that along with the rain this week “it is also mating season and temperatures are warming up outside”. Not as fortunate were two German Shepherds in Northdene which died after being bitten by a black mamba, according to another snake catcher, Nick Evans, who confirmed receiving a lot of calls before the rain on Wednesday. This included a 1.81m spitting cobra which was caught in the same area. “This spitting cobra could be the biggest on record in South Africa, certainly the biggest I have caught,” said Evans. It was freed on Friday. He said one Westville homeowner had five snakes on his property on Tuesday – a black mamba, a spitting cobra, two green snakes and a night adder. “On Tuesday I also caught a very pregnant boomslang in Kloof. It has been so busy this week. “Snakes are breeding now and fattening up after winter. The next sunny day they will be coming out,” said Evans. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY