Whistle-blowers within the unit alleged that the current revenue protection manager was placed in the position, despite not having any information technology experience - a prerequisite for the handling of the complex and controversial Revenue Management System (RMS). The R620million system has irked Durban residents, who have lodged numerous complaints arising from exorbitant amounts reflected on their utility bills, claiming these are incorrect. Incorrect billing has been an ongoing problem for several months since the system was rolled out in full last year. The system was implemented to streamline the city’s revenue billing and was first mooted 11 years ago. The city estimated the system would cost between R90m and R150m in 2004, but this figure escalated. RMS replaced the Coins Billing System. The Manase report into corruption within the eThekwini Municipality, released in July 2013, showed that the tender for RMS was issued irregularly. Supply chain policies were not adhered to and the community was not given notice or invited to submit representations to the municipality. eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede admitted last week that there was a problem with the system. However, municipal whistle-blowers said this week it was not the only problem and that managers were not trained to use it, nor did they have any IT qualifications. One claimed that revenue protection manager Manoj Hanuman did not have any IT experience and was placed in his position without protocols being followed. It is alleged that Hanuman had only a Standard 8 pass and an N6 qualification, but the Sunday Tribune could not verify this and Hanuman said he could not comment on the allegations. The whistle-blower said: “The position was not advertised. Nobody even knew (it) was vacant and, before we knew it, it was filled by Hanuman, who does not have the qualifications for it. We raised other issues pertaining to him with the city’s ombudsman, but no action was taken. How do you have managers working in an IT-driven department with no IT experience? That’s why the RMS system is so messed up. Managers do not even know how to use it.” Complaints The whistle-blower added that being a senior manager required one to deal with hundreds of thousands of complaints: “This means that someone in a position such as Hanuman’s is expected to use IT to access the system and investigate the complaints coming through. If they do not have the qualifications, how can they do the job properly?” The whistle-blower claimed the unit was still being tasked with disconnections on incorrect utility bills, even though it wasn’t the users’ fault: “Innocent residents are having to bear the brunt of a failing system and failing management who do not know how to do the job properly. It is sad that the public has to suffer because of the lack of competence of those who handle the RMS system.” Former mayor James Nxumalo suggested the system be scrapped if it presented ongoing challenges for the municipality. “They should cancel the system and go back to using the Coin system, as this system worked for us. The view in the past, before the system was fully rolled out, was that if it doesn’t work for us changes should be made,” said Nxumalo. Krish Kumar of the municipality’s treasury said he could not comment on the allegations regarding Hanuman as the electricity department did not fall under him. “However, I can confirm that anyone in a senior position fills a professional post and I would be surprised if he did not have the qualifications for it,” said Kumar. He said an inquiry into RMS is under way, as requested by the mayor, and that the results would be available in two months’ time. “In the interim, if anyone is still experiencing issues, we urge them to contact us,” said Kumar. With regard to the allegations regarding the RMS unit’s management, city spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa said she encouraged those with proof of corruption to report it to the eThekwini city integrity and investigations unit on 0800 202020 or e-mail ombuds@durban.gov.za to lay a formal complaint. With regard to the RMS system, she said if a customer failed to meet utility payment deadlines the city would disconnect them. “The city has always committed to investigate any bills that are unusually high and, wherever adjustments are required, this is immediately effected and reflects in the next bill,” said Mthethwa. DA councillor and Exco member Heinz de Boer said it became a trend in the municipality for people to be placed in top positions without having the correct qualifications. “There have been cases in the past where people were promoted without a proper explanation If the case of Hanuman is true, it should be reported to the city’s investigation unit,” De Boer said. SUNDAY TRIBUNE