DURBAN - TWO DURBAN beaches, the Ushaka and Westbrook beaches, have retained their Blue Flag status. Ushaka was the only beach from Durban's well known Golden Mile beaches to secure the award. This was confirmed during the annual awards held at Dolphins Beach, in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday. Through consistent excellence in the areas of safety, amenities, cleanliness and environmental management the beaches managed to reclaim the awards. However, outside of Ushaka, none of the Durban Beachfront beaches which form part of the Golden Mile made it on the list. Initially, Durban had four Blue Flags at local beaches Ushaka, eMdloti tidal area, eMdloti main and Umgababa before pulling out in 2009. South Africa was the first country outside Europe to be granted Blue Flag accreditation for its beaches and the programme has been locally managed by WESSA since 2001 in partnership with participating coastal municipalities. The eThekwini Municipality returned to the programme in 2014. uMhlanga and eMdloti Beaches could not qualify this year due to renovations that were undertaken during the assessment period, while eManzimtoti and uMgababa are in  “pilot status” for a year until the city can demonstrate that the city complies with all 33 quality criteria required by Blue Flag International. The Blue Flag, according to the World Tourism Organisation, is the most well-known eco-label of its kind. More than 40 countries across the globe are participating in the programme with almost 4,300 Blue Flag beaches, boats and marinas around the world. Westbrook Beach councillor Geoff Pullan who was the only attendant from Durban said he was pleased to retain the status on his wards. WESSA CEO and Minister of Tourism Tokozile Xasa on the right  presenting Blue Flag Awards to Durban Ward 58 Councillor Geoff Pullan. "The Blue Flag programme offers many benefits: improved tourism facilities, enhanced management of coastal ecosystems, increased awareness of the coast and capacity building of the area. Durban has beautiful weather and we should use that to our advantage because people love our beaches. This will help us to keep tourist coming, who they create jobs and contribute to ur DGP," said Pullan. Ugu District municipalities also retained seven  Blue Flags statues on their beaches. SUNDAY TRIBUNE