Cape Town - A Delft woman who was kidnapped over the weekend has been found dead in Kleinvlei.
Priscilla Sauls, 29, was allegedly beaten to death by angry taxi drivers who thought she had robbed a driver and was part of a prostitution syndicate operating in Delft. Priscilla and her friend, Faizel Lakay, were kidnapped on Sunday morning while walking home from a garage shop. Faizel is still missing. On Tuesday morning, before her body was discovered, both families gathered at Delft SAPS to embark on a search for the missing friends. Priscilla’s father, Everton, said she was walking with five friends at the time of the attack. He explains: “It was past five in the morning. It was Priscilla, Faizel, three other men and a woman named Pinky. The three men were walking in front and they told us they saw a taxi pull up and Pinky ran away. Then the men in the taxi got out and beat Priscilla and Faizel and threw them in the van.” A mother of one of the three men, who asked not to be named, says her son told her they ran for their lives as the van approached them and went to get help. Faizel’s father, Saberien, says when they arrived at the police station, cops informed the families that Pinky was part of a prostitution syndicate which operates around the garage. He says: “The guys pick them up and then they have guys with them that rob the taxi drivers. Now they thought Priscilla was with Pinky and so they went for her and Faizel.” The Daily Voice were informed that two women involved in the robbery of the taxi driver were being held there. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant-Colonel André Traut, confirmed police were investigating the kidnapping. Late Tuesday Everton’s worst fears were confirmed when he went to Tygerberg Mortuary and found Priscilla’s body. “I went there myself and I found her. She is dead and they say she was beaten to death. I don’t know now,” was all the devastated father could say. Meanwhile, Faizel’s father says they too visited the mortuary but could not find him and hope that he is still alive. Daily Voice