DURBAN - THE Southern African Fraud Prevention Service has warned the public not to take lightly the massive data breach that hit the country on Wednesday. Manie van Schalkwyk of the fraud prevention service warned that it would be consumers who would be the real victims. He was certain that every South African was on the database and should assume that this is the case and warned the public not to check on sites if they had been affected by the breach. On Wednesday, a file dated April 2015 which contained the more than 30 million records and 2.2 million e-mails was published on a publicly accessible web server by Australian web security expert, Troy Hunt, and Microsoft regional director. “I warn consumers against attempting to verify if they are on the database or anybody offering services like that,” said van Schalkwyk. “You could be leading yourself into further jeopardy by providing somebody else with data with the understanding that you will verify if you are on the leaked dataset.  You might provide legitimate information to an illegitimate source," he warned. A safer option was to check with credit bureaus for suspicious transactions, he said. And if a person has been affected, they could apply for protective registration through the fraud prevention agency, which would give members of the public an added layer of security by alerting the credit provider or banks that a certain ID number has been compromised. The free service can be accessed on www.safps.org.za The sensitive information amounting to more than 27 gigabytes of data includes ID numbers, income, age, employment history, occupation, race, maritial status and previous home addresses. Van Schalkwyk said the breach presented fraudsters with an opportunity to open accounts and transact as one of the named parties in the leaked profiles. They could also sell the information, he said. Meanwhile, the Hawks have confirmed that they are investigating the massive data breach which has compromised the personal information of more than 30 million South Africans. Acting National Head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata has instructed an investigation into the alleged Master Deeds breach. “The Hawks typically does not comment on ongoing investigations, however, in light of the intense public interest and the potential impact of this matter, the Hawks are collaborating with other law enforcement agencies and stakeholders investigating the data breach,” said Hawks spokesman, Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi. He said the scope of the investigation would not be discussed however, the Hawks’ Cybercrime Unit was leading the investigation. “Matakata has instructed that investigators spare no effort in their probe and in enforcing the law to the fullest extent against anyone who is found to be at fault,” said Mulaudzi. The breach has been described as the largest cyber scandal the country has seen. On Wednesday, a file dated April 2015 which contained the more than 30 million records and 2.2 million e-mails was published on a publicly accessible web server by Australian web security expert, Troy Hunt, and Microsoft regional director. The Department of Home Affairs also said it would investigate the breach. SUNDAY TRIBUNE