DURBAN - Moms and children came out in their superhero themed costumes to celebrate the birthday of Skabenga, the Oyster Box Hotel’s much loved celebrity cat. Skabenga, whose birthday bash was held at the hotel for a seventh year, attracted more than 60 children to the sold-out party. Tickets for the furry birthday do of the year, ranged from R390 per adult and R200 for children. Skabenga's age is unknown because he arrived at the Oyster Box many years ago as a stray. “When the Oyster Box was undergoing renovations nearly eight years ago, Skabenga was already on the property and had to be sent to stay with someone. He has been on the property for much longer though. We suspect it could be between 12 to 15 years,” said Oyster Box General Manager, Wayne Coezter. WATCH: Skabenga's birthday cake   He is now a permanent resident at the hotel and is a hit among guests. Skabenga - whose name is adapted from the isiZulu word 'sgebengu' which means hooligan or vagabond, lives a life of royalty at the Oyster Box as he is always being fed food and is well groomed. Grandmother Anne Brown who has been attending Skabenga’s birthday bashes since its inception with her granddaughter Ella Grace, said she looked forward to the event every year. “It’s a special day on our calendar and Ella loves Skabenga. She has been attending his birthday bashes since she was three years old. She is now 10. It keeps getting better and better every year that even the mothers and grannies love attending it,” said Brown. Children were kept entertained with activities ranging from sand art, cupcake decorating, a special photo booth, face-painting and a pamper corner. Skabenga, whose online profile has been growing, also has his own Facebook page called Skabenga at the Oyster Box with almost 3000 likes. And here's why:  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za