DURBAN - WATER quality in the harbour on Saturday morning will determine whether Durban’s biggest club-level dinghy event of the year – the Johnson’s Cup – will take place. Human excrement has been part of the pollution that has poured into the bay through litter-choked canals during the storm 10 days ago. “We’ll make the call at 10am,” said Point Yacht Club spokesperson Sophie Thompson. Teams of cleaners have been gathering litter that collects at various points depending on the wind but people in the yachting community consider these activities insufficient as they live between surges of vile-smelling pollution entering and leaving their area. The state of the harbour water a week after the storm has not prompted eThekwini Municipality to close beaches. “Following vigorous clean-up operations, the city is pleased to announce that all city beaches are now open to the public,” said spokesperson Tozi Mthethwa. “All shark nets have been reinstalled.” According to Randeer Kasserchun, eThekwini Municipality’s deputy head of coastal, stormwater and catchment management, raw sewage becomes part of the mix because people connect stormwater drains to sewage systems, through manholes, and vice-versa. Environmental consultant Bjorn Hoffmann faced the problem on the day of the storm when a surge of sewage-tainted stormwater damaged his car so badly it was written off. He had been in a meeting at the municipality's Southern Sewerage Works, which had overflowed. “It was a kick-off meeting to discuss an expansion of the wastewater works. “After an hour someone came and said ‘move your cars’." Read also: #DurbanStorm Drains are not dustbins Hoffmann discovered his car had been hit by a wave of waist-deep stormwater mixed with sewage. Kasserchun stressed that litter played a huge role in the floods, spreading out widely after having clogged canals and other stormwater systems. Among it was the dirtiest of debris gathered during dry times. A harbour diver who did not wish to be named said there appeared to be more mud and litter in the water since the storm but that it remained business as usual. “A lot of our work takes us to places where water quality is poor,” he said. “We would be more concerned about a situation such as a tanker spilling out dangerous chemicals.” On litter, Kasserchun said education was the remedy. He added that community members also needed to police one another against the scourge. He said the stormwater drain system in Durban was not designed to cope with storms that happen only once in 50 years. “The storm (of October 10) was a one in 50 storm – that is the type of huge storm that happens once in every 50 years. Our stormwater pipes are not designed for that. It was one in 50, especially in the southern areas and at the harbour. North of the city it was still more than one in 10, and pipes are designed for one in 10”. Kasserchun said the city would look into an adaptation plan, adding 20% to the capacity of stormwater drains. “The city accepts that climate change is happening and that sea levels are rising. We are seeing the effects of more intense rainfall and abnormal storms every year.” He added that had the amount of rain come down in 24 hours it would not have been a problem. “It was the intensity that caused the damage.” Kasserchun said that this week the city had tallied damage to its property as being more than R300 million, and adding up. “Complaints are still coming in. In affluent areas information gets through quickly. People have e-mail. “In places like uMlazi they rely heavily on councillors to come out on visits and those complaints are still coming through.”