DURBAN: OUTSPOKEN “African rights” activist Phumlani Mfeka has incensed local Indian leaders by firing a broadside at the plan to celebrate Diwali at King Goodwill Zwelithini’s Zulu royal palace later this month.
Last month, Zwelithini confirmed he would host a Diwali celebration event at his palace in Nongoma, northern KwaZulu-Natal, in an effort to bring the Indian and Zulu communities closer. However, this did not please Mfeka. Businessman Ishwar Ramlutchman, who has been anointed a prince by Zwelithini, and his organisation, the Sivananda World Peace Foundation, are to co-host the event. But this was not well received by Mfeka, who is a member of the Injeje YamaNguni lobby group. He took to Facebook and posted in Zulu that holding a Hindu festival at the royal palace would be degrading the throne. His translated post read: “What the king plans to do is disrespectful to the Zulu people and our forefathers. What kind of a palace would hold a sacred celebration for another tribe?” To this the king retorted that no one should tell him what to do. The president of the South African Hindu Maha Sabha, the umbrella organisation for Hindus in South Africa, Ashwin Trikamjee, said Mfeka seemed like a person who did not want races to mix. Trikamjee said: “Diwali celebrations are observed throughout the world by Hindus and non-Hindus, and we have been celebrating this festival in South Africa for over 100 years. The message is simply one of peace.” “We don’t see any reason anyone should not enjoy Diwali and its meaning of peace. South Africans should be inclusive in their views of culture and not exclusionary.” Former eThekwini municipality speaker Logie Naidoo, who was at the monarch’s Shaka’s Day event last month in traditional Zulu dress, labelled Mfeka’s post “utter nonsense”. “He doesn’t understand the significance of Diwali. It is about the triumph of good over evil - tolerance and multiculturalism. “In KZN, we are subjects of the king, and if Barack Obama (the former US president) can celebrate Diwali in the White House, we can celebrate it in the king’s palace,” he said. Inkatha Freedom Party chief whip Narend Singh said that when the king spoke, his statements were final. The IFP is led by Inkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi, who has close ties with the royal family. Singh said: “The concept of promoting social cohesion should extend to other religions.” He said the IFP had received requests from people from various areas, including Shallcross and Chatsworth, requesting transport to the event, and this would be negotiated with organisers. Meanwhile, Mfeka has defended his statements, telling the Sunday Tribune Herald he spoke from a cultural perspective. He said: “Imagine a person by the name of Naicker going into a sacred place in your house and conducting their sacred practices in your home. The palace is sacred ground where the king’s ancestors are buried. Hosting an event for another culture would be unacceptable - ask any sangoma.” Mfeka insisted he was not against social cohesion. “It’s about the venue. Host the celebration elsewhere, not at the palace,” he said. He has previously crossed swords with the Indian community, largely over his comments about how they treated black workers. His utterances landed him with an equality charge related to hate speech comments made on behalf of the Mazibuye African Forum. The matter will be heard in Durban’s Equality Court next month. Zwelithini’s spokesperson, Prince Thulani Zulu, would not comment on Mfeka’s statements and suggested the Diwali celebrations meant to take place next week could be postponed as two of the king’s relatives had died last week. SUNDAY TRIBUNE