DURBAN - Dashing into the middle of a busy freeway to try to save a life. That was Kearsney College matric pupils, Jason Bashford, from Westville, who tried to resuscitate a pedestrian who was flung across the M13 freeway on Monday morning. Bashford, 18, and his father, Gary, were travelling down the freeway when they saw a person lying in the middle of the road. Describing the incident, Gary said: “A woman was lying in the centre median and I think the accident had just happened. Jason said to me ‘dad you must stop, we cannot just drive past’. “We stopped and he ran straight across the road over to her. Other people were standing around, I think they were in shock. “Jason spent his work experience at a trauma and emergency unit at a hospital and he is very passionate about medical emergencies,” said Gary, who is also a trained lifeguard. Downplaying his heroic act, Jason said: “I saw this lady lying in the road and people were just standing around her. I ran across the road to her, there was a faint pulse so I started CPR. I didn't really think about the traffic, it was just kind of in the moment. “I gave her CPR for about five minutes and then my dad and I took turns. Then a former paramedic stopped and took over with CPR while I held the patient's neck. When she had to stop to call for an ambulance, I took over CPR again. We tried resuscitation for about 15 minutes but it felt like forever. “It wasn't only me, there were a whole lot of people helping,” he said. Having been complete strangers at the scene, Jason and former senior paramedic Sarah Warner met up again on Friday. She described Jason's actions as “amazing”. “I saw all the commotion and that someone was giving CPR in the middle of the road. It was dangerous, although people had stopped their cars to form a boundary. “I could see Jason was wearing a school uniform so I stopped to help. He was absolutely cool, calm and collected. For someone with no formal training, he was very good and it absolutely amazed me. He was also very caring and compassionate. I carried on giving CPR until the ambulance arrived,” she said. Unfortunately the patient died at the scene. “We left when the paramedics and ambulance arrived, but when my mom went past soon afterwards, the body had been covered. I felt very sad,” said Jason. INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY