DURBAN - Prominent Chatsworth medical practitioner and community activist, Doctor Soornarain Subramoney Naidoo, known as Cyril, was dumped in a pavement in uMlazi after being hijacked earlier this week. The doctor is now set to reward the youngster who came to his aid after he was involved in a horrific hijacking on Wednesday morning. Video footage taken by CCTV cameras shows how the doctor was hijacked in 40 seconds by gunmen. Video footage of the incident went viral on social media shortly after the incident showed him reaching into his parked silver Mercedes-Benz for change to give the tyre dealer’s assistant as three armed men, wearing balaclavas, pounced from a white Polo Vivo sedan, which sped off after offloading the hijackers. WATCH THE FOOTAGE HERE To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The 65-year-old retired academic re-lived the harrowing ordeal during which he was brutally assaulted and forced to crouch in the backseat of his car after being hijacked on President Road in Bayview, Chatsworth. “My life was in the hands of three individuals who had no regard for humanity,” he said. Also read: Three killed in N2 shootout Also read: Durban cops gun down hijackers Naidoo was forced into his luxury Mercedes Benz by the hijackers who drove with him to Umlazi where they dumped the doctor and fled. Following his ordeal Naidoo believed that his hijackers were part of a grim criminal syndicate. “When they fired a shot in the air, I knew my life was on the line. They told me to co-operate and shoved me onto the back seat where I had to crouch with my head between the front seats. One leaned over, pointing a pistol at me while another held me down,” he told the Sunday Tribune. Naidoo said once inside the car the men removed their balaclavas and demanded several times he reveal information about the vehicle’s tracking device. Also read: Cars burnt in tribute to gang boss “They told me that if they found the device they would kill me. I kept saying there was nothing and prayed they wouldn’t find anything. They drove at varying speeds on Higginson Highway and when I tried to look up, banged my forehead with a gun.” A youngster from a nearby house, who Naidoo described as a “gift from God”, helped him get home by buying airtime so he could call family using the young man’s phone. Naidoo, who was picked up in a police vehicle, was taken home and later opened a case of hijacking at the Bayview police station. He said he would reward his helper.
During his hour-long ordeal Naidoo said he glimpsed one of the suspects and could recognise him. He said he believed the hijackers were foreign members of a criminal network. SUNDAY TRIBUNE