Sharpton, 63, who was one of the Democratic candidates for nomination in the 2004 US presidential elections, but who eventually lost out to John Kerry, reminded South African leaders that the country’s democracy was achieved through activism. Apart from being at the forefront of the opposition to Donald Trump’s presidency in the US, Sharpton has 40 years of civil rights activism to his name. He spoke to the Sunday Tribune at Inkosi Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre, having made his annual visit to the city for the second Essence Festival hosted in Durban. The festival which originated in New Orleans, kicked off on Thursday and ends today. It aimed to celebrate the city’s culture and music, much like its annual New Orleans counterpart. “We should all remember that about a quarter of a century ago democratic freedom was achieved here. “Therefore we should not taint the fact that activism, which included the efforts of labour unions, helped to take down apartheid politically,” said Sharpton. He was speaking in response to trade union Cosatu’s countrywide strike this week when thousands downed tools and embarked on strike action to voice their disapproval of state capture and government corruption. Sharpton said workers’ rights must be respected, that people be allowed to do business, and government must ensure that healing from previous hurts happened. “Government must not be the replacers of oppression, they must be the ones stamping it out. Even if it meant they are the ones who made adjustments. We must put the cause of the country ahead of their personal agendas,” said Sharpton. He said he was very excited about Durban’s Essence Festival. “I was here two years ago to announce it with the mayor (James Nxumalo, who was in office then). “It has become a smashing success. The energy and enthusiasm at this festival is amazing, and I’m very proud to see that Essence has made a bond with the business leadership here in Durban. I look forward to watching it grow.” His visit to last year’s Essence Festival, in November, ended abruptly when  Trump was elected US president. Sharpton returned to the US and led protest action against that outcome. “He (Trump) has been the most divisive and insensitive president of my time and when he was elected I led the march against his election, and several other  marches since then.” Sharpton said the campaign against Trump’s rule was gathering momentum and “now even professional athletes are getting involved and raising their voices”. “After eight years of President Barrack Obama setting the nation on the right course, Trump’s election is the attempt by some to have a backlash. That is a temporary setback, not defeat,” said Sharpton. The church and religious leaders should take on the role of moral authority and not be “nit pickers who take sides”. SUNDAY TRIBUNE