DURBAN - To celebrate the triumph of light over darkness, many Hindu’s geared up in Diwali traditional wear on Thursday with delicious sweetmeats on hand to add flavour to the annual Hindu observance. In Durban, the Sunday Tribune visited the festive homes of three families who were celebrating and shared their cultural fashion food and fun. Therusha Chetty, 22, displayed her talent of henna art, known in the Indian culture as ‘mehndi’. The Seatides resident Chetty began henna applications while at school and practiced on her friends. She later turned her talent into a fruitful business she named Desi Designs. “It’s relaxing and there’s no space for mistakes,” she said. WATCH: Henna art design for Diwali To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Meanwhile, on the eve of Diwali, fireworks could be heard firing-off in the distance as the sun set over Ashika Ramdin’s brightly coloured Rangoli pattern that decorated the stairs of her family’s Reservoir Hills home. Ramdin, 38, had been called by her parents-in- law to light up their home with the colourful traditional pattern. Rangoli is an art form that developed in India where patterns were created on the floor of living rooms or courtyards during cultural festivals. To form the pattern rice, dry flour, sand or flower petals were stained in bright colours, however Ramdin saw an opportunity to add a modern touch to the age-old tradition by using acrylic paint to form intricate designs. “It’s part of who we are as Indians. It brings colour to any function, be it weddings, Diwali, or even a conference,” said Ramdin. WATCH: Rangoli art timelapse To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. What’s a celebration without delicious foods? Gita Omrawo shared her special Banana Puri recipe, and tips and tricks to make “the flower bloom”. Banana Puri is an Indian sweetmeat that is made of a crisp pastry dipped in sugary syrup, the sweetmeat is made to look like a rose in full bloom. “I find it’s a Diwali favourite, and decorating the Banana Puri is fun because you get to use so many colours,” Omrawo said. WATCH: How to make Banana Puri’s bloom To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.